    Article  356,  from  the  time  of  its 

inception,  has  been  an  unpopular  provision.  A  State  Assembly  is  elected  for  the 

powers that the State Assembly has. The Parliament is elected for the jurisdiction 

that  the  Centre  has.   This  is  the  essence  of  Federalism.    As  far  as  Uttarakhand  is 

concerned,  I  will  only  point  out  three  materials.  On  the  27th  midnight,  when  the 

Council of Ministers met and decided to advise the President, 27 MLAs asked for a 

Division  and the  Speaker  refused  to give a  Division.  Secondly,  you  have  a  video 

clipping which is true as per the forensic examination.  It shows the Chief Minister 

indulging in horse-trading.  Thirdly, the 28th March was three days away from 1st 

April. The Speaker had not certified the Appropriation Bill, and the Governor had 

not  given  his  assent.  On  the  1st  April,  the  State  would  have  been  plunged  into  a 

constitutional  crisis  where  there  was  no  Budget.    Now  the  material  is  when 

President’s  Rule  is  imposed,  when  the  majority  was  saying  that  they  failed  the 

Budget, horse-trading was going on, you have a State without a Budget, and within 

72  hours  it  would  have  plunged  into  a  constitutional  crisis;  the  certificate  of  the 

Speaker  comes  much  later;  till  today,  the  Governor  has  not  given  his  assent. 

Democracy and federalism are the essence of the Indian Constitution. Democracy 

means  ‘rule  by  majority’.  If  the  majority  fails  the  Budget,  can  a  ‘Government 

continue even for a minute?  The MLAs may be disqualified.  The answer to the 

‘Tenth  Schedule’  is  the  MLAs  will  be  disqualified,  and  the  Government  has  to 

resign  because  it  has  lost  the  Budget;  both  things  have  to  follow.    The  rule  by 

majority  is  defied  because  a  failed  Budget  was  declared  passed.  The  Speaker 

refused to have a division; he refused to test the floor.  The questions which have 

to be answered is: What if the Speaker refuses to have a floor test?  Second is, the 

Speaker wrongly manipulates the floor by wrongly counting.  The third situation is 

that the Speaker adjourns the House and then changes the character of the floor and 

asks for a floor test under a new floor.    One of the cardinal principles of judicial 

independence  is  that  Courts  should  never  follow  the  ballot  box.    The  Bommai 

judgment  in  its  application  raises  questions.    Irrespective  of  whichever  way  the 

courts  decide,  whether  they  revive  one  Government  or  they  create  a  new 

Government  or  they  extend  President’s  rule  continues,  the  Appropriation 

Ordinance has to be made into an Act because there is a cloud on what happened 

on the  18th of  March  and, therefore, expenditure  from  1st  April  has  to be  ratified. 

That is a necessity and that is why we have sought that Appropriation for a period 

of four months. That is a Constitutional necessity.   

The discussion was concluded. 

All the Demands for Grants on Account (Uttarakhand) were voted in full. 

 

