  Even  seventy  years  after  Independence,  the 

organization of our national defence, the removal of poverty and the provision of 

education  for  the  Indian  masses  continue  to  demand  our  urgent  attention.  The 

challenge  for  any  Finance  Minister  is  to  strike  just  the  right  balance  between  the 

imperative of defence and the need for development in allocating resources of the 

State.  Viewed in this light, the Finance Minister has provided a reasonable sum of 

Rs.2,74,114  crore  for  defence  expenditure  excluding  pensions.  There  have  been 

steady moderate increases in spending on defence during the last three years. The 

current ratio of defence expenditure to GDP is 2.14 per cent which is higher than 

the  cap  of  1.76  per  cent  that  had  been  proposed  by  the  Thirteenth  Finance 

Commission.   In fact, the overall modernization budget has gone down this year.  I 

am  especially  dismayed  by  the  cut  in  the  Navy's  modernization  budget.  The 

protection  of  the  sea-lanes  traversing  the  Arabian  Sea  and  the  Bay  of  Bengal  is 

essential if we are to secure our economic future as part of an Asian resurgence in 

the  21st century.     The  strong  case  for increasing  capital  expenditure on  the  latest 

military  equipment  is  unfortunately  undermined  by  the  sorry  record  of  under-

utilization by the Ministry of Defence of allotted funds.  It is most unfortunate that 

the Ministry of Defence returned more than Rs.12,000 crore under the capital head 

in 2015-16 and about Rs.7,000 crore in 2016-17.  I hope that necessary steps will 

be taken to make the Defence Ministry more efficient in utilizing capital funds.  It 

is  a  matter  of  grave  concern  that  even  seven  decades  after  Independence,  our 

defence  requirements  are  heavily  reliant  on  imports.    I  would  like  to  ask  the 

Finance Minister why in the budget any special incentives have not been given to 

defence  production within  India  in support  of  the Prime  Minister's  Make  in  India 

programme.  Our political leadership must do their best not to impose impossible 

internal security tasks on our military so that our soldiers can focus on defending 

our borders.  At the same, I urge the Prime Minister to give our country a full time 

Defence  Minister  who  deems  the  proud  responsibility  of  organizing  our  national 

defence to be more important than power at any cost in a small state of our great 

Indian  Union.    In  order  to  build  a  new  India  by  the  75th  Anniversary  of  our 

Independence, we will have to integrate our defence policy with a grand strategic 

vision based on a broad and imaginative definition of genuine national security. 

 

