  My  question  to  the  Government  and 

to the hon. Minister is how long we would continue with creating these standalone 

and  isolated  institutions  whose investment  is high?    There  is  no  connect between 

the  outputs  of  those  institutions  such  as  the  one  and  the  ground  level.      And 

because  of  this,  we  are  not  actually  benefitting  from  these  stand-alone  institutes.  

Our policy has been such that we do not take cognizance of what is required at the 

ground  and  how  we  can  benefit  the  poorest  of  the  poor.    There  is  also  the  other 

aspect  about  the  generic  medicines.    Our  generic  medicines  are  not  necessarily 

packaged  as  the  international  brands  are.    Generic  medicines  developed  in  India 

have  been  able  to  produce  antibiotics,  TB,  HIV  and  anti-malaria  medicines.    On 

the one hand our  brother-doctors  are  very  hesitant to prescribe  generic  medicines 

because doctors themselves need to be made aware of what the generic medicines 

are  capable  of.    Some  of  them  are  frightened.  Some  of  them  are  influenced  by 

multinational  pharma  companies.    The  other  part  that  really  concerns  me  is  the 

weak-kneed approach of our Government.  I am talking about the Government of 

India.  I am not talking about the UPA Government or the NDA Government.  It is 

all the same.  They down before the US.  Therefore, the other concern for me is, 

today  the  25th  of  April,  2016  in  Perth,  Australia  there  is  a  free  trade  talk  starting 

between  the  big  leagues.    Some  of  the  social  activist  groups  have  produced  data 

from  leaked  documents  which  says  that  pharmaceutical  companies  and  the  US 

Government  directly  are  putting  pressure  to  ensure  that  generic  medicines  will 

become  far  more  difficult  and  fare  more  expensive  to  be  accessed  in  Asia  and 

particularly in India.  So we should not kneel before the US and the multinational 

pharma  companies.    Let  us  stand  up  and  let  us  take  a  stand  that  we  will  make 

generic medicines and biotechnology as a science accessible to our farmers and to 

our poor, to the unhealthy.  

 

 

 

