  I  welcome  the  hon.  Finance 

Minister's efforts to ensure that the respective laws that they wish to amend today, 

are  GST  complaint,  I  must  raise  a  few  matters  of  concern,  which  pertain  to  the 

overall  effectiveness  of  this  proposal.    First  issue  is  related  to  the  administrative 

overreach.    Under  the  proposed  amendments  customs  and  excise  officials  will  be 

given excessive authority to levy punitive actions against several entities.  This is a 

clause,  much  like  the  provision  in  the  Finance  Bill,  2017  which  allows  excessive 

powers to IT officials for 'search and seizure' and  is a clear overreach in terms of 

administrative  powers.    In  effect,  it  will  be  spreading  the  inspector  raj.    The  Bill 

will also empower authorities to collect information which is "considered relevant 

for  the  purpose  of  the  Act".    This  is  a  very  vague  statement.  What  is  relevant?  

Who  considers  it  relevant?    It  is  not  defining  any  procedural  basis  for  the 

procurement  of  such  information.    Such  arbitrary  powers  can  lead  to  abuse, 

favouritism    and  corruption.    I  would  welcome  clarity  from  the  Minister  in  this 

regard  as  to  how  you  are  going  to  determine  what  is  considered  relevant  for  the 

purposes of this Act.  At a time, when the Government is trying to broaden the tax 

net,  creating  opportunities  for  abuse  of  tax  payers  is  not  a  wise  policy.    The 

Government  must  first  seek  to  address the  gaps  in  recruitment,  infrastructure  and 

connectivity  between  departments  before  these  new  sections  of  the  law  are 

implemented.  If you look at the total number of the sanctioned posts in the Central 

Government, you have 4,20,000 vacancies which is 11.52 per cent vacancy rate in 

the Central Government.  I would also like to raise the issue of the critical lack of 

communication between departments.  I would like to ask the hon. Minister if he 

would  consider  a  plan  to  allow  for  lateral  entry  to  be  used  to  fill  some  of  the 

vacancies,  in  the  various  departments  referred  to  in  this  bill  to  ensure  the  overall 

performance  does  not  drop  with  the  implementation  of  his  proposal.    My  second 

point is that this Bill seeks to repeal certain Acts such as the Water (Prevention and 

Control  of  Pollution)  Cess  Act.    Industrial  waste  is  one  of  the  major  causes  of 

water  pollution.    The  Water  Cess  was  levied  on  the  consumption  of  water  by 

industries.    There  is  justice  involved  in  making  the  polluter  responsible  for 

polluting the resource.  Since the Government is having additional  cesses and sin 

taxes for luxury goods, why not for polluting activities.  I fail to see the logic in not 

taxing industrial users of water with the water cess.  Does the Government wish to 

repeal its old Acts and replace it with at least more stringent rules and regulations?  

We  seek  clarity  on  this  issue  in  order  to  protect  the  most  valuable  resource.  My 

third point is that petroleum, crude  oil does not come under the purview of GST. 

The  Parliamentary  Standing  Committee,  considering  this,  in  discussing  the 

Demand for Grants said that since crude oil and natural gas will be kept out of the 

GST.    The  companies  like  ONGC  and  OIL  cannot  claim  credit  for  their  money 

spent  toward  VAT  on  services  hired  and  goods  for  the  production  of  petroleum 

products.    There  is  likely  to  be  a  cascading  effect  across  the  supply  chain,  with 

either  the  customer  or  the  manufacturer  or  both  taking  a  hit.    So,  the  Committee 

had recommended that oil PSUs companies should be able to get adjustment of full 

VAT  credit  for  the  total  amount  against  VAT  that  have  been  paid  by  them  on 

inputs and services.  One of the main questions here is what are the safeguards that 

the  Government  has  instituted  to  ensure  that  Indian  oil  prices  are  not  completely 

vulnerable to the harsh volatility of global crude prices?  The fourth point is about 

beedi products.  Standardisation of beedi rolling, along with placement in a higher 

tax bracket would make these products less accessible to public.  My fifth point is 

about  Central  Excise  Act,  1944  and  1985.    Now,  at  present,  the  Government  has 

the power to charge excise duties through notification in emergency circumstances 

as per the 1985 Act but with the Taxation Laws Amendment Bill which we are just 

passing, it now also seeks to allow the Government to amend the proposed fourth 

schedule  which  means  the  Government  would  have  the  power  to  decide  which 

goods fall under central excise with a notification like, having emergency powers.  

This  is  very  worrying.    Finally,  my  last  concern  relates  to  the  risks  of  delay  in 

implementation.    If  there  are  delay  till  September  as  recently  suggested  this  may 

leave individuals stranded between conflicting laws and their implementation. We 

support  this  Bill  but  we  urge  the  Government  to  take  these  six  concerns  into 

serious consideration and to amend the regulations accordingly.  

 

