  The  Rajya  Sabha  passed  this  Bill 

unanimously  yesterday.    I  am  saying  this  because  it  sent  a  positive  message  to 

Bangladesh  that  as  far  as  the  good  relations  between  India  and  Bangladesh  are 

concerned,  all  the  parties  in  India  are  united  and  there  is  no  question  of  any 

difference.  Therefore, I am requesting all the members of this House to show the 

same  spirit  in  the  passage  of  this  Bill  as  was  shown  by  Rajya  Sabha  yesterday.  

This  Bill  has  got  a  long  history.    With  the  partition  of  India,  Pakistan  came  into 

existence and today's Bangladesh which was earlier called East Pakistan was part 

of  Pakistan.    At  that  time  the  Radcliffe  award  was  meant  to  demarcate  boundary 

between India and East Pakistan but that award could not be implemented.  In the 

year  1971  Bangladesh  came  into  existence  as  a  new nation  and  I  need  not  repeat 

the  role  India  played  in  it.    An  agreement  was  signed  in  1974  between  the  then 

Prime Minister late Smt. Indira Gandhi and Bangbandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rehman 

popularly  known  as  the  Indira-Mujib  Agreement.    Though  this    agreement  was 

ratified by  the  Parliament  of  Bangladesh,  the  Parliament  of  India  could not  ratify 

the same  and  no  discussion  took  place  on  this  matter  for  all  these  37  years.   The 

ratification could not be done due to non-demarcation of land boundary. Then Dr. 

Manmohan  Singh took initiative  for the  same  in 2011.   He visited  Bangladesh in 

2011 and a protocol was signed there.  And this Bill which I am presenting here is 

the logical conclusion of the 1974 Agreement and the protocol signed in 2011. But 

initially  when  this  Bill  was  introduced  in  the  Rajya  Sabha  it  was  vehemently 

opposed mainly by three parties i.e. the AGP, BJP and TMC.  AGP and BJP were 

of the view that the interests of Assam were overlooked in that Bill.  The TMC on 

its part was of the view that the implementation of this Bill would add burden on 

the exchequer of the State Government as a large number of people would migrate 

to the State from Bangladesh.  Therefore, they would need a package for the State 

to meet the expenses to be incurred on this count.  Though this Bill was referred to 

the Standing Committee that time, the Committee could not give its report as the 

Committee  got  dissolved  with  the  dissolution  of  Lok  Sabha.    When  our 

government  assumed  the  office  on  26  May  2014,  I  chose  Bangladesh  as  the  first 

country  for  my  visit  as  the  Minister  of  External  Affairs.    When  I  met  the  Prime 

Minister  of  Bangladesh,  Sheikh  Hasina,  she  strongly  urged  me  that  the  protocol 

which  was  signed  by  Dr.  Manmohan  Singh  with  her  country  should  be  taken 

forward.    I  talked  to  our  Prime  Minister  on  the  matter  and  he  told  me  that  try  to 

resolve the unresolved issues and go ahead.  First of all, we talked to Mamata ji on 

this matter and we were given to know that she wanted a package for the state and 

2-3 rounds of talks were held with her.  She demanded a sum of Rs. 3008 crore as 

package.  When the assessment was done as to how many people would migrate to 

the state from Bangladesh, one assessment showed the figure as 3500 and the other 

assessment  showed  it  as  35000.    So,  we  decided  the  package  based  on  the  latter 

and  also  said  that  it  would  be  variable.    When  the  new  Standing  Committee  was 

formed  on  1st  September,  2014  we  referred  the  Bill  to  the  Committee  on  16th 

September.  So far as Assam is concerned the Chief Minister of the State echoing 

our sentiments said that we would not give even an inch of land and the land which 

is in possession of Bangladesh should be taken back.  Then we thought that Assam 

should be left out of the discussions and wanted to get  passed the LBA involving 

West  Bengal,  Meghalaya  and  Tripura  in  discussions  and  also  decided  to  re-

negotiate  with  Assam  later  on.    I  took  this  proposals  to  the  Cabinet  and  it  was 

decided in the Cabinet meeting that this Bill should be passed leaving Assam out.  

But later on when we talked to the leaders of all the parties, it emerged that Assam 

was also not objected to it but the Congress Party very categorically told us that if 

we  wanted  their  support,  Assam  should  also  be  included  in  it.    Now  we  had  two 

options:  one  was  to  leave  the  LBA  and  the  second  was  to  include  Assam  and  go 

ahead.  Today I would like to say it would not have been wise to leave LBA and 

therefore, we decided to include Assam also in order to get the LBA passed as was 

presented in 2013.  I talked  to Prime Minister on this matter and called a meeting 

of  the  Cabinet  and  we  decided  to  leave  out  the  earlier  amendments  and  also 

decided to take everyone along us for the passage of this Bill.  This Bill has been 

passed in the Rajya Sabha in the same form as it was presented in 2013 and I have 

brought in this  Bill in  this  House  in the same  form.   I  would  like to  say  that this 

Bill  would  benefit  us  in  three  ways.    Firstly,  the  demarcation  of  land  boundary 

which  is  yet  incomplete  would  get  completed.    Secondly,  the  fate  of  the  people 

living in enclaves was hanging in balance and this issue would also get resolved.  

Thirdly, the parcels of land which are in  adverse occupation would also turn into 

adverse occupation.  Along with these three things, we could also go ahead in the 

matters of trade and transit etc. and we could also get closely connected with the 

North-East.  At the same time our relations with Bangladesh would souch the same 

height as were in 1971.  It is a historic moment and after the passage of this Bill the 

shape  the  agreement  would  take  after  41  years  would  be  the  outcome  of  100th 

Constitutional  Amendment.    Moreover,  this  100th  Constitutional  Amendment 

would get itself registered in the history as well.   

 

SHRI ADHIR RANJAN CHOWDHURY: The Constitution (Amendment) 

Bill, 2013 was introduced in the Rajya Sabha in December, 2013.  It was referred 

to the Parliamentary Standing Committee.  The India-Bangladesh Agreement was 

signed  in  1974,  but  as  it  was  not  ratified,  it  has  not  been  implemented  in  reality.  

The Land Boundary Agreement is aimed to enhance bilateral cooperation between 

the two countries.  This is a momentous legislation.  Three issues were outstanding 

between  Bangladesh  and  India.    One  is  the  un-demarcated  land  boundary  of  6.1 

kilometres;  exchange  of  enclaves  and  adverse  possessions  remain  unsettled.  The 

truth is that I am very much in agreement with the concern expressed by the Chief 

Minister, West Bengal because the Radcliff line was drawn arbitrarily much to the 

disservice of the  neighbouring  and  adjoining  States of  Bangladesh, namely,  West 

Bengal, Meghalaya, Assam and Tripura.  Therefore, I would be in full support of 

the  rehabilitation  package  that  has  been  sought  by  the  West  Bengal  Government.  

Not only that.  I would also propose that rehabilitation should be proper and should 

be scientific.  The Indian citizens residing in Indian enclaves in Bangladesh have 

been  deprived  of  basic  necessities  and  rights  since  1950.  They  deserve  a  decent 

rehabilitation  package  once  they  come  to  mainland.    It  is  also  essential  that  such 

movement  and  rehabilitation  of  population  from  Indian  enclaves  in  Bangladesh 

and  Bangladeshi  enclaves  being  transferred  to  India  does  not  lead  to  local 

resentment  and  social  tensions.  That  is  why,  I  would  propose  that  at  the  time  of 

entry, the person would be provided biometric Aadhaar Card and his name would 

be  entered  in  the  National  Population  Register.   Secondly, the  families  should  be 

housed  in  temporary  relief  camps  in  predetermined  locations  preferably  in  the 

same  police  stations  in  which  their  original  enclaves  were  located.    The  family 

members should also be issued EPI Card, BPL Card and job card under MNREGA.  

Bank accounts should also be opened under Jan Dhan Yojana.  Three issues were 

outstanding  between  Bangladesh  and  India.    One  is  the  un-demarcated  land 

boundary  of  6.1  kms.    As  per  the  Radcliff  dispensation,  the  line  was  drawn 

arbitrarily  much  to  the  disservice  of  the  neighbouring  and  adjoining  States  of 

Bangladesh,  namely,  West  Bengal,  Meghalaya,  Assam  and  Tripura.  I  would 

propose that rehabilitation should be proper and should be scientific.  It is essential 

to  have  a  seamless  integration  of  Bangladeshi  enclaves  with  the  local  area  and 

population.    For  achieving  this,  the  physical  and  social  infrastructure  of  these 

enclaves has  to be upgraded to the level of  neighbouring  areas.   I  would propose 

that at the time of entry, the person would be provided biometric Adhaar card and 

his  name  would  be  entered  in  the  National  Population  Register.    The  family 

members  should  also  be  issued  EPI  card,  BPL  ration  card  and    job  card  under 

MNREGA.  Bank accounts should also be opened under Jan Dhan Yojana. 

 

