  There  is  no  doubt  that  this  Bill  has  very  many 

improved features for which we  must commend the Government that for the first 

time  a  comprehensive  legislation  has  been  brought  forward  for  the  aid  of  those 

who  are  disadvantaged-  some  from  birth,  some  through  accidents  or  diseases 

acquired  later.    Now,  there  are  certain  things.    The  main  thing  is  that  they  have 

included  21  disabilities  as  part  of  disabilities.    For  instance,  for  the  first  time, 

autism and intellectual problem of learning disorders has been included.  And for 

the first time, acid attack victims who are a big problem to society have also been 

included.  Now Parkinson's disease has also been included as a disability.  Blood 

disorders like thalassemia and haemphilia have been included.  I also support that 

reservation  should  be  increased  to  five  per  cent  instead  of  four  per  cent  as 

promised  in  the  Bill.    Now  the  Central  and  State  Advisory  Boards  are  being 

formed,  and  our  Parliament  will  also  elect  Members  to  the  Central  Board.    The 

District Advisory Boards should also have representatives of the people.  Members 

or some representative people should be kept in the District Advisory Boards.  A 

national  fund  for  persons  with  disabilities  is  being  created  and  I  do  hope  that  the 

Finance  Ministers  in  future  allot  sufficient  funds  to  help  the  persons  with 

disabilities.      Now,  I  want  to  mention  two  points  in  brief.    Our  country  is  not 

disabled friendly.  We have not been able to introduce ramp in our trains and in our 

buses, and even in some Government buildings as in the Western countries.  These 

ramps  have  not  been  put  for  the  handicapped  people.    That  should  be  strictly 

implemented.    The  National  Institute  for  the  Orthopaedically  Handicapped  in  my 

constituency is very badly maintained and very badly managed.  There is a big rush 

of  patients  there.    There  is  not  sufficient  doctors,  particularly  doctors  who  can 

perform surgery on  orthopaedically disabled. I want the Minister to give personal 

attention.    This  is  my  last  point.    Many  people  do  not  know  that  the  Central 

Government  has  a  scheme  to  give  free  appliances  to  the  handicapped.  

Wheelchairs,  tricycles,  blind  sticks  and  hearing  aids  -  all  this  is  distributed  free.  

But we have to organize camps.  Now to organize the camps for thousand or two 

thousand  people  takes  a  lot  of  money.    There  is  no  help  from  the  Government.  

Then,  again  in  camps  there  is  a  problem  that  unless  they  have  the  disability 

certificate, they will not get these aids from the Government of India.  So, I would 

request  the  Minister  to  make  this  problem  of  having  certificates  not  compulsory, 

not mandatory but optional so that more people get benefited.  Rules in respect of 

camps should be made simple.   

 

