  Clause  2  is  proposed  to  amend  Section  2, 

Clause  19  AA.  The  hon.  Minister  is  only  adding  an  explanation  here  to  make 

things  clear.  The  explanation  to  Clause  19AA  makes  it  further  clear  about  the 

demerger. So, it is only an explanation. The second point is relating to deduction in 

respect  of  employment  of  new  employees.  The  Act  requires  that  the  employee 

should have been employed for a minimum of 240 days in the previous year. Now 

the  Bill  proposes  to  relax  this  duration  to  150  days  for  businesses  which 

manufacture  apparel.  The  final  part  is  relating  to  increasing  the  customs  duty 

ceilings from 10 per cent to 40 per cent on marble, granite blocks and also slabs. It 

is  not  increasing  the  rate.  Apart  from  this,  I  have  a  suggestion  to  make  that  the 

marble industry has been demanding for open permits and removing import limits 

that  are  present  now  since  the  demand  is  4.8  crore  metric  tones  but  the  domestic 

production is only 1.16 crore metric tones. So, this may please be looked into. It is 

at  our  State’s  insistence  and  the  insistence  of  other  States,  the  hon.  Finance 

Minister  has  set  up  a  Committee  to  look  into  the  FRBM  limits.  We  have  been 

asking to increase the limit from three per cent to seven per cent which will help 

Andhra  Pradesh  to  get  additional  borrowings  and  to  boost  public  spending.  I 

request  the  hon.  Finance  Minister,  as  an  interim  and  urgent  measure,  to  please 

permit,  at  least,  Andhra  Pradesh  to  increase  our  FRBM  limit  to  seven  per  cent.  I 

would  like  to  remind  the  Finance  Minister  that  the  assurance  made  by  the  then 

Prime  Minister  was  that  Andhra  Pradesh  would  get  concessions  and  investment 

incentives  in  line  with  Himachal  Pradesh  and  Uttarakhand.  The  neighbouring 

States  are  saying  that  this  will  create  an  unlevel  playing  field  but  I  would  like  to 

remind the House and also the Finance Minister that we are in an unlevel playing 

field in Andhra Pradesh. We have no capital, no industrial base. We need to create 

jobs.  There  are  so  many  challenges  we  are  facing,  and  without  meeting  these 

assurances and giving us the industrial tax incentives, we will be in a dire strait.  

 

