  Thank  you  all 

so  much  for  expressing  your  views  in  support  of  this  bill.  I  have  no  reservation. 

The  interest  of  the  country  is  supreme.  we,  to  achieve  this  end,  put  the  bill  on 

website for as long as possible as well held discussions with the stakeholders. The 

government has taken all suggestions seriously. India  has mixed economy where 

private  sector  and  public  sector  both  are  working  together.  No  matter  how  much 

independence  is  given  to  a  body,  it  must  has  some  co-ordination  with  the 

government.  We  are  about  to  bring  up  separate  Consumer  Protection  Bill. BIS is 

related to standards and everything from pin to plane must be in conformity  with 

standards.  Today,  people  are  becoming  more  and  more  health  conscious.  My 

colleague has just said that many banned drugs are being sold in our country. Let's 

not  make  standards  so  high  that  the  selling  of  goods  on  road  side  become 

impossible.  The  issue  of  misleading  advertisements  was  also  raised.  Earlier,  the 

misleading advertisement were looked into by the Ministry of I&B which has very 

different  approach  in  this  regard.  We  do  not  have  expertise.  Neither  we  have 

massive infrastructure for this, nor able to create it. We want a simple way in place 

to  promote  standardization,  but  with  strict  law.  The  violation  of  the  mandatory 

products or ISI by anyone will be considered a cognizable offence which may be 

punishable with the imprisonment  of two years or a fine of Rs. 1 Lac or both. In 

case of big businessmen, they have to be fined with 10 times either of their annual 

turnover  or the  turnover  carried since the date  of  filling  complaint. We  have  also 

suggested  to  make  hall-marking  mandatory.  If  the  products  of  India  are  not  in 

international  standards,  how  can  we  compete  in  the  world.  Thus  I  request  all  the 

members to pass the bill with unanimously.  

 

 

