 When a child is committing a crime, 

we are not having a system to study what has caused the child to adopt this path.  It 

may be economic hardships, family background, environment or peer pressure.  I 

believe that taking a reactive approach will not help this country.  We have to take 

a long term approach in cases where we are dealing with children or infants.  What 

the past has shown is that implementation of the law has been the biggest problem.  

Therefore,  probably  whatever  there  is  in  the  Bill,  we  will  have  some  600  plus 

Juvenile  Boards  because  they  plan  to  have  one  Board  per  district.    I  believe  that 

laws should  be so  framed  that they  are  very  easily  understandable.   So, with  600 

districts  again,  we  will  have  the  law  being  interpreted  completely  differently  at 

every  single  district.    Ambiguities  are  galore  in  this  Bill.    I  would  like  that  the 

Government  should  reconsider  whether  setting the base  age  whatever  eighteen or 

sixteen whether that is wise or not.  Although I support the lowering of the age, I 

believe  that  there  is  no  rationale  behind  the  number  sixteen  and  these  district 

Boards should have the freedom to judge each and every case on individual merit.  

The other part that I would like to point out to the Government is that there is a lot 

of discretion left at the hands of the police officer dealing with the children.  Now, 

we  are  very  well  aware  that  our  police  officers  are  found  to  be  extremely 

insensitive  and  callous  in  most  cases  dealing  with  adults.  When  it  is  a  child, we 

obviously  cannot  expect  them  to  have  feelings,  to  have  emotions  and  to  be 

bothered  about  the  future  of  the  child.    So,  I  would  request  the  Government  that 

they  should  reconsider  about  the  discretion  of  the  police  officers  because  their 

sensitivity is something that one needs to actually question.  The other point that I 

would say is that all the time when we are making our laws, we are making it with 

a  very  short-sighted  approach  and  very  soon  by  the  time  the  law  is  actually 

implemented  at  the  ground  level,  we  find  that  our  machinery  is  incapable  of 

handling it.  So, there should not be any ambiguity.  Yet it should be an open ended 

law which can transform itself over a period of time. 

 

