  Atomic  energy  is  not  only 

sustainable but it is also very safe energy.    We are an energy deficit nation and we 

cannot  afford  not  to  have  nuclear  energy.    We  welcome  this  Bill  and  we  support 

this Bill.  The amendment of section (2) of the 1962 Act states that the 51 per cent 

paid up share capital of the power plant can be held by one or  more Government 

agencies.  I seek some clarifications and put some questions also.  Within this 51 

per cent, all the 51 per cent or how much can the PSUs own or how much can the 

Central Government own directly?  That is one question.  Secondly, since we are 

privatising  the  PSUs,  can  the  private  companies  invest  in  the  PSUs?  Can  foreign 

investment  in  the  PSUs  be  limited  to  49  per  cent?    Or,  does  it  mean  that  we  are 

limiting  foreign  and private investment  to  49 per  cent?  Or  is it  49 per  cent direct 

investment  or  49  per  cent  of  51  per  cent  indirect  investment  taking  the  overall 

private or  foreign investment  to 73  per  cent?    So, that  is something on  which  we 

need clarification from the Ministry.  We need to facilitate even foreign investment 

but definitely, we should not facilitate foreign influence.  While our scientists are 

promoting  Thorium  capacity  for  R&D,  we  feel  we  are  being  slowly  nudged  to 

Uranium  based  ones.    It  baffles  me  why  we  are  buying  Uranium  from  Australia, 

Belarus and so many other countries?  It also assumes significance in the backdrop 

of  our  "Make  in  India"  campaign.    Telangana  and  Andhra  Pradesh  both  stand  to 

gain, particularly Telangana.  I say this because 50 per cent of the Uranium in this 

country  is  in  two  districts  -  Nalgonda  and  Cuddapah  in  Andhra  Pradesh  and  of 

course, some in Guntur.  I want to have one important clarification from the hon. 

Minister as to whether it is 49 per cent direct investment.  I do not think any PSU, 

in the recent future, will sell 49 per cent of  the stake. 

 

