  As  many  as  22  hon. 

Members  have  put  forth  their  very  good      view  points  on the future of  20  Indian 

Institutes  of  Management.    I,  really  thank  them  all  for  supporting  this  Bill.  

Members of all the parties have spoken in favour of autonomy of  these institutes.  

This  clearly  indicates  that our  country  has  been progressing  and  this also  sends  a 

clear message to our countrymen in this regard.  Now, the world could see that we 

have taken an initiative for providing autonomy to these institutes in real sense.  As 

I said earlier, we must trust our best brains and our best institutes.  These institutes 

have proved time and against that they are the institutes of excellence.  When they 

are institutes of excellence, we must accord them the status of institutes of national 

importance.    As  I  said  there  will  be  a  parliamentary  accountability.    Setting  the 

system  is  the  issue.    We  must  set  the  system  in  order  and  then,  things  roll  out 

automatically.    Today,  other  universities  have  become  famous  because  they  are 

independent  and  autonomous  and  that  is  the  basic  strength  of  our  educational 

institutes  to  survive  and  flourish.    I  am  very  sure,  with  this  historic  decision,  we 

will  really  make  a  change  and  our  IIMs  will  go  to  the  next  level  and  the  whole 

education sector will aspire to be more quality oriented.  Regarding research, what 

was happening earlier?  It is because the fellowships of IIMs were not regarded by 

many as Ph.Ds and that was the problem and therefore, there were less students for 

Ph.Ds  to  become  Fellows.    Now  the  research  will  be  here.    The  research 

management  is  very  important  because  it  is  changing  world  and  we  will  get  that 

research now based in India, done in India and used in India and world over also.  

That  is  the  basic  thing.    And,  this  is  the  vision  of  Prime  Minister.    He  wants  to 

make  a  difference  and  give  real  autonomy  to  the  higher  educational  quality 

institutes so that they flourish and reach to their optimum.  Now, I will come to the 

other  issues.    As  for  Higher  Education  Finance  Agency  (HEFA),  it  has  started 

functioning. 

 

Higher Education Finance Agency will put in nearly three billion dollars in 

the  next  three  years  into  the  higher  education  sector  to  essentially  upgrade  and 

create  new  world  class  research  infrastructure.    That  is  the  aim  with  which  the 

Higher  Education  Finance  Agency  will  be  working.    Rs.  2  crore  is  given  under 

RUSA to good colleges and Rs.20 crore to good universities.  The Government has 

invested  in  RUSA  more  than  Rs.4,000  crore,  and  it  has  resulted  in  good 

development  of  infrastructure. 

  Technical  Education  Quality  Improvement 

Programme,  has  three  phases.    The  third  phase  is  all  about  hilly  states,  North-

Eastern  States,  Andaman  and  the  so-called  earlier  BIMARU  States,  Odisha, 

Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal.  It 

is a Rs.2,800 crore worth programme.  IMPRINT is a research initiative in which 

we  ask  proposals  in  10  domain  areas  from  all  the  professionals,  working  people, 

students,  teachers  and  faculties  from  everywhere.    The  Government  has  received 

1500    proposals  and  out  of  which  200  have  been  finalized.    The  Government  is 

going to give Rs.600 crore and it has already started rolling out, and the research is 

on.  Uchhatar Avishkar Yojana is relating to industry-academia interaction.  Many 

people  talked  about  incubation  centres.    Incubation  centres  are  there  in  the  IIMs, 

IITs and in all these higher learning institutes.  We have also started one proposal 

of 'Gyan' where 600 professors from 58 countries had come last year and each one 

conducted  a  course  here  by  remaining  here  for  2-3  weeks.    That  has  benefited 

hugely  the  students  and  the  teachers.  This  year  800  foreign  professors  from  60 

counties  are  coming  here.    This  type  of  exchange  was  needed,  and  that  is 

happening.  We  are  recording  it  also.    These  courses  will  be  available  on 

SWAYAM also.  So there are many number of initiatives of quality improvement.  

The  Cabinet  will  soon  take  a  decision  about  the  world  class  universities.    10 

institutes in public sector and 10 in private sector will be today called as institutes 

of eminence but after certain time we aspire that in a decade they will acquire the 

ranking of the first 200 and then they will also go up in the first 100.  To address 

the issue of faculty, we have to imbibe and inculcate the teacher-ship.   

 

Through  variable  packages,  we  want  to  attract  the  good  faculties.    We  are 

also  attracting  best  of  the  Indian  researchers,  who  are  doing  research  work  in 

foreign countries.  As there will be more and more people returning to the country, 

there  will  be  more  and  more  people  available  as  faculties.    This  is  how  we  are 

going ahead and the faculty issue will be done away with.  Regarding the issue of 

expenditure, I would like to inform that in 2013-14, it was Rs.284 crore; in 2014-

15, it was Rs.320 crore; in 2015-16, it was Rs.460 crore; in 2016-17, it was Rs.722 

crore and in 2017-18, it is going to be Rs.1030 crore. This is the progression of the 

expenditure.   The  hon. Member  also  mentioned that  there  are 14  institutes  which 

do  not  have  directors  posted.    However,  there  are  only  four  institutes  where  the 

post  is  vacant.    So  far  as  fees  is  concerned,  let  me  be  very  clear  that  no  merit 

student  or  a  student  who  is  eligible  for  admission  will  be  denied  education 

anywhere.    That  is  the  affirmative  action,  which  the  Government  has  promised.  

For  this,  scholarship,  merit-cum-means  scholarship  and  earn  while  you  learn 

schemes are also there.  We will ensure that no genuine student loses the chance of 

getting higher education because he does not have money.  In terms of reservation, 

it  is  available  for  student.    For  faculty  reservation,  the  Government  has  issued 

specific  direction  that  we  must  make  positive  and  affirmative  action  to  fill  up 

SC/ST and other reserved vacancies of faculties.   

 

With regard to Board of Governors, there will be no role of Government in 

selection of Board of Governors.   It has tenure of four years and only two terms.  

The issue of mother tongue has come up which is quite important.  This is possible, 

but the material and conditions will have to be prepared.  I feel that management 

institutes can understand the market forces.    

The Bill, as amended, was passed. 

