  This  Bill seeks  to  ensure  speedy  disposal of high 

value commercial  disputes.   This is nothing  but  an effort to  serve  the interests  of 

corporates.  The Governments should establish commercial courts on the basis of 

the  requirement.    The  Standing  Committee  pointed  out  that  Sikkim  and 

Uttarakhand are having one and 25 cases in total respectively.  So, the requirement 

of  commercial  courts  is  varied in  States.  The  Government  should  have collected 

statistical  data  regarding  the  number  of  commercial  suits,  applications,  appeals, 

and  petitions  pending  before  the  various  courts  in  the  country.    An  important 

observation  made  by  the  Standing  Committee  is  regarding  the  appointment  of 

Judges in commercial courts.  The Bill gives the power of appointment to the Chief 

Justice of the High Court concerned.  The power of appointment of person to the 

post of District Judge in a State lies with the Governor of that State who exercises 

that  power  in  consultation  with  the  High  Court  of  the  State  concerned.    Now,  in 

this Bill that power has been given to the Chief Justice of the High Court of that 

State.   We do not have any complaint if the Indian legal system is responsive to 

the  investor  world.    It  is  all  right.  But  what  is  the  responsiveness  of  our  legal 

system to the common people of our country?  The number of pending cases in all 

courts is estimated to be more than three crores.  10 percent cases are pending for 

more  than  10  years.    At  the  current  rate  of  disposal,  Districts  courts  will  take  10 

years  to  clear  pending  cases.    Why  is  there  a  huge  number  of  under-trials  in  our 

jails?    It  is  because  of  failure  of  our  justice  delivery  system.    Why  has  the 

Government  not  concerned  about  making  Indian  legal  system  more  responsive to 

ordinary  poor  and  common  people  of  our  country?    So,  I  would  like  to  make  an 

appeal  to  the  hon.  Minister  to  address  these  serious  issues  which  concern  the 

ordinary and poor people.    

 

