  For  the  first  time  the 

agriculture  sector  itself  contributed  significantly  in  the  economic  growth  of  the 

country.  I commend the steps being taken by the Government.  But if we want to 

implement the Fasal Bima Yojana in a comprehensive manner, we need automatic 

weather  stations  in  every  village.    Similarly,  the  most  important  aspect  of  crop 

insurance  is  very  very  tragic.   So, we  need  to  start  differentiating insurance  for  a 

single  crop  farmer  and  for  a  three  crop  wealthy  farmer.    We  need  to  change  the 

crop  insurance  policy  accordingly.    We  have  seen  that  in  every  Budget,  the 

agricultural  credit  has  been  rising  continuously.    But,  the  important  question  is, 

where this credit is going. According to the report of the RBI Committee, the small 

farmer gets his 60 per cent credit from moneylenders, shopkeepers and traders and 

only  27  per  cent  from  banks,  whereas,  the  rick  farmer  gets  64  per  cent  from  the 

banks and only 20 per cent from shopkeepers, traders and moneylenders.  We also 

review  the  District  Credit  Plan  and    I  was  shocked  when  I  reviewed  the  District 

Credit  Plan.    For  farmers  and  agriculture,  they  were  supposed  to  give  Rs.  2800 

crore, but they gave only Rs.700 crore.  So, if this situation is in my district, I am 

sure this situation is similar all over the country.  Similarly, we are not able to avail 

of  NABARD  loans  properly.    The  NABARD  loans  to  the  farmers  or  to  the 

irrigation projects should be exempted from the FRBM.  Another important thing 

is  agricultural  commodity  prices.    It  is  decided  by  the  market  forces  and  the 

Government  interventions.   I  would  like  to  know  how  does  the  Government  deal 

with it?  We need to look at a new system and promote future's market.  Probably, 

with  all  these  Aadhaar  Card  and  Jan  Dhan  Yojana,  instead  of  giving  subsidized 

rice and Public Distribution, w can give free food coupons or direct cash transfers 

so that the poor can proudly buy at market prices in any store. 

  

