 We hope that this legislation 

brings  much  anticipated  peace  and  improve  relations  between  India  and 

Bangladesh.    In  the  year  2011,  the  Government  of  India  had  taken  an  initiative 

combined  with  the  Bangladesh  Government  and  conducted  the  headcount,  which 

was pending for 40 years.  It made it easy for us to bring this legislation.  Through 

this  legislation  today  we  are  talking  about  111  Indian  enclaves  in  Bangladesh.  

There are 51 Bangladesh enclaves in India.  The headcount conducted in July says 

that  51,549  people  in  India  and  14,215  people  in  Bangladesh  will  be  affected  by 

this legislation.  There will be good change in their lives.  Through this Bill we will 

be  amending  our  First  Schedule  of  the  Constitution  and  will  be  amending  the 

territories  of  Assam,  West  Bengal,  Meghalaya  and  Tripura.    With  the  passage  of 

this Bill, we will definitely have better bilateral cooperation, security and trades.  I 

would  request  that  the  Centre  should  oversee  the  developmental  plans  as  well 

otherwise,  after  sometime,  everybody  forgets  about  the  development.    We  share 

about 4000 km. of boundaries with Bangladesh.  It should be fenced.  Besides this, 

other  outstanding  issues  with  Bangladesh  like  the  maritime  issue  and  river  water 

issue, should also be resolved.  We are very huge country neighbouring with very 

small  countries.    But  it  is  also  our  responsibility  as  a  big  brother  that  we  play  a 

good  role  and  we  share  and  settle  the  issues  between  these  countries.    China  has 

invested in Sri Lanka Ports, and China is investing in Bangladesh.  This will be a 

problem  in  the  future.    We  should  also  invest  in  our  neighbouring  countries  like 

Nepal  and  Afghanistan.    Let  us  work  more  towards  improving  our  relations  with 

the neighbouring nations, and let our foreign policy not be dictated by China and 

Pakistan.   

 

