  This  Bill  has  been  passed  by  Rajya  Sabha  after  exhaustive  deliberations.  

First  of  all,  the  Standing  Committee  held  wide  consultations  with  all  the 

stakeholders, development partners, all the persons associated with this sector and 

the  persons  tested  HIV  positive.    In  addition  to  inter-ministerial  consultation,  the 

state representatives were also consulted on the subject.  Total 29 inter-ministerial 

consultations  and  21  departmental  consultations  were  held.    The  Standing 

Committee made 11 recommendations in this regard and 10 recommendations out 

of  them  have been  incorporated in the  Bill.   Today, this  Bill has  been brought in 

Lok  Sabha.    This  Bill  not  only  strengthens  those  persons  who  are  committed  to 

tackle  the  HIV  virus  but  also  provide  them  powers  as  well  as  legal  protection  to 

tide  over  this  crisis.    With  the  passage  of  this  Bill,  a  legal  protection  will  be 

available  to  them  and  the  persons  violating  the  legal  provisions  will  be  punished 

with fine and imprisonment.  Criminal and civil action will also be initiated against 

them.    Most  importantly,  HIV  patients  will  not  have  to  face  any  kind  of 

discriminations following the passage of this Bill.  Secondly, action will be taken 

against  those  who  discriminate  against  HIV  patients.  This  Bill  seeks  to  create 

conductive  atmosphere  for  HIV  positive  persons  at  their  work  places  and  in  the 

society.    Treating  them  with  disgust  or  preventing  them  from  working  in  any 

institution will constitute an offence under the law.  But this Bill intends to put the 

discriminatory  treatment  to  an  end.    Similarly,  we  will  provide  protection  to  the 

persons  working  in  healthcare  institutions  by  invariably  providing  gloves,  safe 

needles and safe environment to them.  Besides, the Government will promote the 

measures  intended  to  check  the  spread  of  HIV  virus.    We  will  have  to  adopt 

holistic and aggressive strategy for that purpose and it will be incumbent upon the 

Government to adopt such a strategy from time to time. Thus, this Bill protects the 

interests of the HIV infected persons.  We will have to be cautious, lest the child 

should not get  infected  with  HIV  virus if  a  mother is  HIV  positive.   At  the  same 

time, the rights of the HIV positive persons to property and their other rights will 

also be legally protected.   It has also been provided that there will be a complaint 

registration officer on every 25 employees in healthcare institutions.  A penalty of 

Rs.1  lakh  or  imprisonment  or  both  have  been  provided  for  violating  these 

provisions.    Moreover,  states  ombudsmen  will  be  appointed  by  the  state 

governments.  If an injustice is done to a patient, the ombudsman will decide as to 

who  has  done  the  injustice  and  will  take  action  within  30  days  in  this  respect.  

Apart from this, confidentiality of the HIV infected patients will be maintained in 

the  proceedings  of  the  courts  and  in  the  medical  records.    I,  through  you,  would 

like to say to all the hon. Members that this Bill is people-centric and progressive 

one and hence I request them to pass the Bill.   

