 The Main objective of this Bill is to 

declare  the  Indian  Institutes  of  management  to  be  the  Institutes  of  national 

Importance.  The other objective is to give the power to these institutions to award 

MBA  and  Ph.D.  degrees  instead  of  Post  Graduate  Diploma  in  Management  and 

Fellow Programmes.  Another objective is to give autonomy to these institutions.    

This  is  really  a  very  welcome  step.    In  last  three  years  of  NDA  rule,  the 

Government of India has taken a decision to set up seven IIMs.  The sixth IIM is 

being  established  at  Visakhapatnam  in  the  State  of  Andhra  Pradesh  in  my 

constituency  as  per  the  Andhra  Pradesh  Reorganization  Act.  The  Board  of 

Governors are being independent and five members of the Board of Governors are 

going to be alumni-members.  I think, this is one of the very good initiatives taken 

as far as the formation of the Board of Governors is concerned.  Social inclusion is 

also  taken  care  of  as  SC/ST  faculty  members  are  being  included  in  the  Board  of 

Governors.  Similarly, women members are also included.  I would like to foresee 

an anomaly.  In addition to IIMs, which are being formed as societies, which are 

giving only diplomas, there are private institutes in the country like the prestigious 

ISB,  Hyderabad,  XLRI,  MDI,  SPJMR,  IMT  and  K.G.  Somaiya  Institute  of 

Management.    They  also  give  only  diplomas.    When  IIMs  start  giving  degrees, 

what will happen to these institutions?  We should be able to remove this anomaly.  

I  would  like  to  suggest  that  every  IIM  should  have  an  Incubation  Centre  to 

encourage  the  students  coming  up  with  bright  ideas  to  become  entrepreneurs.    

After  the  bifurcation  of  Andhra  Pradesh,  the  Ministry  of  HRD  was  very  kind 

enough to already sanction five institutes.  Still, there are two institutions to come 

up as per the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, namely, establishment of Tribal 

University  and  establishment  of  Central  University  that  are  pending.    I  would 

request the hon. Minister to take the decision at the earliest.   

 

