 I rise to oppose as well as to voice our 

party's this Bill in its present form. We are not averse to reforms in any subject if 

they  are  pro-poor  and  the  aim  is  public  god.    We  are  opposing  this  legislation 

because it has not taken into account the views of all the stakeholders.  GST is a 

contentious issue not only in India but the worldwide.  We all know that elections 

were lost and later won on the  GST issue in Australia.  In Tamil Nadu's case, we 

have a conservative estimate loss of Rs. 10,000 crore per fiscal in addition to the 

revenue loss arising out of phasing out of PSP and transfer of Input Tax  Credit and 

other  taxes.    Taxing  shipping  from  the  point  of  origin  to  the  point  of  destination 

has  created  a  piquant  situation  of  huge  and  recurring  revenue  loss  to  the  State.  

Tamil Nadu is opposed to the idea of the GST Council as a Constitutional body as 

it  compromises  the  autonomy  of  the  States  including  in  fiscal  matters.    Presently 

21  per  cent  of  our  sales  tax  revenue  is  only  from  petroleum  products.    Bringing 

these products under the ambit of GST will curtail the taxation powers of the States 

and entail huge revenue losses.  We, therefore, urge that the petroleum products be 

totally  kept  out  of  the  purview  of  the  GST.    States  should  also  be  given  similar 

power as the centre to levy higher tax over and above SGST on tobacco products.  

The  other  thing  is  revenue  loss  due  to  CST  to  the  extent  of  Rs.  3,500  crore  per 

annum  if  GST  is  implemented.    Amendment  Bill  empowers  the  Government  of 

India  to  exempt  goods  from  this  additional  levy  of  one  per  cent.    This  is  a 

temporary provision and will not compensate the State for permanent losses.  We 

urge  the  Centre  to  provide  100  per  cent  compensation  to  the  States  for  the  entire 

period of five years.  The transition of GST is not going to be easy.  Once the GST 

is  rolled  out,  the  cost  of  services  is  going  to  increase  substantially.    Our  humble 

request  to  the  Government  is, kindly  seize  this  opportunity  and  take  on  board  all 

stakeholders and bring out a fine piece of legislation.   

 

