  This  is  a  historical  Bill  because  one  of  the 

proposed IITs is going to be located in my constituency. Despite Karnataka being 

the most developed State and being the education hub we did not have IITs. I thank 

our Prime Minister, the Hon. Finance Minister, the former HRD Minister and the 

present Hon. HRD Ministers and the hon. Minister of Chemical and Fertilizers for 

giving a new IIT for Karnataka. I also thank the Government of Karnataka which is 

providing  470  acres  of  land  free  of  cost.  In  the  Bill,  it  is  mentioned  as  Dharwar. 

But,  I  request  him  to  make  it  Dharwad.  The  Britishers  used  to  pronounce  it  as 

Dharwar,  but  now  it  has  been  officially  re-named  as  Dharwad.  Whatever  good 

things have happened for Dharwad, especially the northern part of Karnataka, they 

have happened during the tenure of the NDA or the BJP Government. This IIT has 

been brought there  during the  present government.  I thank this  Government from 

the bottom of  my heart. In 60 years, there were established only 16 IITs. But the 

dynamic decision of Prime Minister to establish one IIT in each State is bringing 

all  these  changes.  As  far  as  quality  is  concerned,  we  need  to  think  about  it  very 

seriously.  Today,  research  is  becoming  just  a  fashion.  Involvement  of  the  private 

and corporate sector is required to have a proper research. Most of the brilliant and 

top  class  students  naturally  go  to  the  corporate  sector.  We  have  made  CSR  a 

mandatory  thing  for  the  corporate  sector.  I  would  like  to  know  whether  the 

Government can think of making it mandatory to invest something in these higher 

education  institutions.  There  is  another  suggestion  of  the  Narayana  Murthy 

Committee  that  faculty  should  be  on  contractual  basis  and  their  performance 

should be continuously apprised and evaluated. There are only 17 institutions from 

India that figure in the top 500 universities. Infosys offered its support in setting up 

the IIIT at Dharwad. They were ready to donate approximately Rs. 50 crore. You 

may kindly enlighten us in this regard.  

 

