  When  India  got  Independence,  the 

Government  was  looking  forward  for  large-scale  industrialization  in  the  country.  

The  idea  of  IIM  then  cropped  up  as  there  was  a  need  for  innovation  for 

industrialization.    Now  times  have  changed  and  so  have  changed  the  job 

descriptions.  IIMs were set up in the decades of 1960 and 1970.  IIMs were seen 

as skill development research institutes.  30 years ago, we had never thought that 

there would be jobs like Well-being Coach, Off-shore Wind Farm Engineer, Chief 

Listening  Officer, App  Developer, Genetic  Counsellor, Logger, Web-Analyst  etc.  

Today,  we  are  witnessing  industrial  revolution  in  a  different  way  and  we  need  a 

talent  pool  with  artificial  intelligence,  nano-technology  and  3D  printing  because 

the youths of the country aspire to move forward with them.  IIMs formulated their 

organic  structure  at  a  large  scale  with  which  foreign  faculties  also  got  associated 

with.   I would like to speak on the four aspects of this Bill as they are important 

ones.    Granting  autonomy  to  IIMs  is  of  vital  importance.    I  would  like  to  thank 

hon.  Minister  and  hon.  Prime  Minister  for  granting  great  amount  of  autonomy  to 

the  IIMs in this  Bill.    The  youths  of today  want  that their thinking  should  not  be 

stifled  as  they  will  get  empowerment  from  this  autonomy  only.    Secondly,  the 

government  has  proposed  that  the  Board  of  Governors  will  have  three  women 

members and five members from alumni network as IIMs have got strong alumni 

network.    When  IIMs  had  started  a  development  office  in  the  year  2014,  IIMs 

raised  Rs.200  crore  in  just  three  years  to  support  these  facilities.    If  the  former 

students  of  these  institutes  intend  to  support  their  institutes  then  they  need  to  be 

given autonomy.  We all should appreciate it.  The third important point relates to 

appointment of Directors and Board of Governors.  Once the Directors and Board 

of  Governors  get  the  autonomy  then  they  themselves  would  decide  as  to  how  to 

make  them  centre  of  excellence.    The  Fourth  important  aspect  relates  to 

accountability  which  is  proposed  to  be  ensured  through  the  CAG.    An  hon. 

Member  was  referring  to  the  previous  version  of  this  Bill  wherein  there  was  a 

provision  to  include  five  members  from  the  Government  also.    But  in  this  Bill, 

only two members are proposed to be taken in the BOG from the Government side.  

There are already 74 institutes of national importance in the country and 20 IIMs 

are  going  to  be  added  to  them.    But  IIMs  have  got  more  autonomy.    I  would 

therefore, request the hon. Minister to bring all the institutes of national importance 

on one platform and these institutes should also get same amount of autonomy.  I 

believe that the youths' aspiration is the country's hope and the IIM network has to 

inspire them for building a great nation.   

 

