  Agriculture  occupies  a  central  place  in  the  Indian 

economy.    Budgetary  allocation  for  the  Agriculture  and  farmer  welfare  is  just 

51026  crores.    An  average  Indian  farmer,  who  has  to  work  on  an  uneconomic 

holding, using traditional methods of cultivation and being exposed to the risks of 

a  poor  agricultural  season  is  almost  always  in  debt.    The  extended  drought  and 

huge  crop  losses  coupled  with  mounting  debts  have  triggered  a  fresh  spate  of 

farmer suicides in the state of Karnataka over the last year.  821 farmers committed 

suicide between April 1 last year and March 2 this year in the state of Karnataka. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  farmers  in  the  state  are  in  dire  straits  owing  to  four 

successive  years  of  drought.    Hence,  I  urge  upon  the  union  government  to  take 

immediate  measure to rescue the farmers  by waiving the loans taken from all the 

Nationalised  Banks  (commercial  Banks,  cooperative  banks  and  regional  rural 

banks).    The  Government  must  issue  directions  to  al  the  Nationalised  Banks 

(commercial  banks,  cooperative  banks  and  regional  rural  banks)  to  extend  short-

term crop loans and medium/long term loan to farmers with zero per cent interest 

so  that  our  farmers  would  get  adequate  financial  help  at  the  low  cost  and 

agriculture  sector  would  see  great  change  in  the  coming  years.    I  request  the 

Government  to  enhance  assistance  to  ensure  farmers  get  adequate  compensation 

for  their  loss  .    I  urge  upon  the  Government  to  provide  assistance  for  defunct 

borewells.  I would like to draw the attention of the Government towards less price 

given to the dairy farmers.  I urge upon the Government to take immediate steps to 

provide a minimum support price to the dairy farmers as they are getting just half 

of the market price. Ramanagara my home district is well known for silk industry.  

The Sericulture farmers are actually suffering.  They are not able to get the benefits 

of  cottage  or  micro  industry.  Therefore,  I  urge  upon  the  Government  o  declare 

reeling units as the cottage industry. 

 

