 A number of other taxes, collected as 

surcharge  get  subsumed  into  the  GST.    The  Union  Government  has  given  more 

power to the GST Council.  Respective provinces or State Governments also have 

given  some  of  their  powers  to  the  Council  and  the  Council  will  be  taking  major 

decisions  relating  to  indirect  tax.    It  will  make  things  easier  for  trade  and 

commerce and free flow of goods from one place to another.  This is a conscious 

decision that all political parties, cutting across their beliefs, have accepted  - One 

Nation, One Tax, and One Product.  With this taxation law, it is proposed to amend 

the Customs Act to include 'warehouse' in the definition of 'custom area' so that an 

importer  would  not  be  required  to  pay  integrated  GST  at  the  time  of  removal  of 

goods  from  the  customs  station  to  a  warehouse.    In  the  Customs  Tariff  Act,  the 

amendment  is  to  provide  for  levy  of  Integrated  GST  and  GST  cess  on  imported 

goods.    In  Central  Excise  Tariff  Act,  the CGST,  a  new  Schedule  is  introduced  to 

provide for classification and duty rates for petroleum products.  This Bill seeks to 

abolish certain cesses or surcharges. This Bill also seeks to abolish the cess levied 

on water consumed by certain  industries and by local authorities under the Water 

(Prevention  and  Control  of  Pollution)  Cess  Act,  1977.  The  whole  of  Beedi 

Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1976, is getting deleted.  Odisha gets benefit from the 

Water  (Prevention  and  Control  of  Pollution)  Cess  Act,  1977  and  also  the  Beedi 

Workers  Welfare  Cess  Act,  1976.    The  Beedi  Workers  Welfare  Cess  Act  clearly 

demands and provides for a fund.  There is a fund.  It is collected and deposited in 

the  Consolidated  Fund  of  India.  Subsequently,  it  is  distributed  among  the  States 

which  give  their  plans  and  programmes  for  those  specific  areas  where  these 

unorganized workers work, where the tendu leaf workers work, where the beedi is 

produced. These are specific housing schemes, specific health schemes made under 

this Act.  I would like to know how the Government would ensure that the money 

that was flowing from this fund for these specific targeted groups will flow?  How 

will  it  be  ensured  that  the  plans  and  programmes  will  also  continue  for  their 

benefit?    That  section  of  the  people  also  needs  support.    I  would  request  you  to 

make additional corrective mechanism in order to provide support to that section of 

people.  Moreover, I would like to know about the measures being taken to ensure 

that the money will also flow for specific upgradation of that area in the backdrop 

of  the  abolition  of  cess  on  water.   The  new  Bankruptcy  Code  will  help  deal  with 

the problem of capitalism.  This Government has brought in transparency through 

auctioning  of  natural  resources.    This  Taxation  Laws  (Amendment)  Bill  is 

consequential of the GST, no doubt, but what next.  Similar is the case relating to 

monetary  policy  and  bankruptcy  regulations.    Now,  the  hon.  Prime  Minister  is 

saying that we should become a ten trillion US Dollar economy by 2032.  What are 

the next generation of economic reforms that we need to achieve this goal?  There 

should  be  strategic  thinking  for  the  long-term.    But  unfortunately,  there  is  not 

enough evidence of such thinking as yet.   

 

