 West Bengal fought hard to preserve and 

protect  cooperative  federalism  in  the  process  of  formulation  of  GST.    It  also 

fought  uncompromisingly  on  fiscal  autonomy  of  all  States  of  the  nation  on 

matters of GST.  Our leader and the present Chief Minister of the State of West 

Bengal  had  in  principle  supported  the  concept  of  GST  as  early  as  2009  in  our 

party  manifesto.    The  idea  was  to  usher  in  a  strong  and  cohesive  indirect  tax 

regime, which creates a single market for all trade and industry and is beneficial 

for the common men, small traders and enterprises.  The Compensation Act will 

ensure  that  no  State  of  the  country  will  suffer  any  financial  loss  due  to  GST.  

West  Bengal  pushed  hard  for  the  GST  threshold  to  be  raised  to  Rs.20  lakh 

turnover  so  that  the  small  and  tiny  businesses  are  kept  out  of  the  scheme  of 

GST. Additionally, in order to ensure least  disturbance and to provide a single 

interface so that the assessee does not have to face more than one authority, the 

concept of cross-empowerment has been introduced in the law.  The purpose of 

GST was to get rid of multiplicity of taxes and the related cascading effect and 

to unify different taxes into a single entry so that the ill-effects of inflation can 

be  curtailed  to  a  large  extent.    Adding  to  this,  the  removal  of  multiple  tax 

structure  means  a  reduction  in  the  cost  of  compliance,  the  benefit  of  which 

should  finally  pass  down  to  the  consumer.    Another  important  benefit  of  the 

new GST regime is the boost to ease of doing business.  It is expected that such 

a major reform in the indirect taxation structure will not only help curb inflation 

but will also have a very positive effect on GDP growth.    Having said so, we 

are concerned in few arenas, which I would like to point out to.  Considering the 

scale of the reform, it is imperative that sufficient time is given to build up the 

structures  required  to  ensure  proper  implementation  of  the  GST  law.    Another 

area  of  concern  is  the  preparation  of  the  GST  Network  (GSTN).    This  is  one 

system  that  cannot  afford  to  fail its  failure  will lead to a  collapse  of  the  entire 

indirect  tax  system  of  the  nation.    Therefore,  it  is  necessary  to  get  all  the 

modules  of  the  GSTN  prepared  and  tested  as  quickly  as  possible.    I  have  a 

request to  the hon. Finance  Minister that we  should not hurriedly  rush  for this 

thing.  We  should  look  into  this  again  whether  defects  are  there  in  it.    It  is 

important that the implementation is also made by both Centre and States in the 

true  spirit  of  cooperative  federalism  helping  build  the  nation  together.    This 

should be the spirit.  No one should ask for its credit.  We should say that we all 

together have implemented it.  

 

