  In  our  country,  65  per  cent  of  population  is 

engaged  in  agriculture.    Agriculture  is  a  loss  making  trade.    Introduction  of 

Pradhan  Mantri  Sinchai  Yojana,  Fasal  Bima  Yojana,  Soil  Testing,  converting  the 

Kisan  Credit  Cards  into  RuPay  cards,  assistance  in  case  of  natural  calamities, 

promotion  of  dairy  farming,  horticulture  and  fisheries,  provision  of  Rs.10  lakh 

crore  for  agriculture  credit,  facility  to  farmers  for  selling  their  produce  in  any 

mandi  in  the  country  and  neem  coating  of  urea  are  important  steps  taken  by  the 

Government in the interest of farmers.  There is an enhancement of 41 per cent in 

the budget  for  rural and  agriculture sectors.   Budget allocation  of the  Ministry  of 

Agriculture  and  Farmers  Welfare  has  been  increased  to  Rs.51,026  crore.    More 

farmers have been covered under Fasal Bima Yojana.  Soil Health Cards are being 

issued and soil testing laboratories are being set up.  The Government plans to set 

up  2,000  model  fertilizers  retail  shops  in  the  next  three  years.    Fertilizers 

companies  are  promoting  use  of  city  waste  to  make  compost.    Growth  in 

production of pulses is a priority.  The Government is implementing an integrated 

agriculture marketing scheme.  Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana is proposed 

to be implemented in a mission mode.  The target of covering 28.5 lakh hectares of 

land  under  this  scheme  has  been  fixed.    250  mandis  in  10  states  have  been 

connected  with  eNAM.   A  model  legislation  is  proposed  on  contract  farming.   A 

dairy      processing  and  infrastructure  development  fund  is  proposed  to  be 

constituted by NABARD.  There is a need to bring about new technology, increase 

the  Minimum  Support  Prices  and  to  waive  the  old  loans.    Agriculture  should  be 

linked  with  MNREGS.   All  crops  should be  covered  under  Pradhan  Mantri  Fasal 

Bima  Yojana.    Madhya  Pradesh  Government  is  the  first  Government  to  provide 

interest  free  loans  to  the  farmers.    I,  therefore,  would  like  to  request  the  hon. 

Minister of Agriculture to provide more assistance to the state of Madhya Pradesh 

for  agriculture  and  to  set  up  an  agricultural  research  center  and  an  agriculture 

university  in  my  Parliamentary  Constituency,  Satna  in  Madhya  Pradesh  and  a 

Krishi Vigyan Kendra at village Abe in tehsil Kotar in Satna district.   

 

