  This  Bill  seeks  to  repeal  the  two  Acts 

relating to banks.  These banks were subsidiaries of the State Bank of India.  The 

Union  Cabinet  granted  its  approval  in  February,  2017  which  allowed  the  SBI  to 

acquire the subsidiaries, and the SBI Act, 1955 is further amended right now.  The 

guiding principle for the consolidation process of banking in India has so far been 

as per the Narasimhan Committee recommendations.  Any initiative with respect to 

merger of public sector banks has to come from the Board of the bank concerned.  

For  the  purposes  of  rationalization  of  resources,  reduction  of  costs,  better 

profitability, lower cost of funds leading to better rate of interest for public at large, 

improve  productivity  and  customer  service,  SBI,  with  the  sanction  of  the  Central 

Government,  is  now  having  a  consolidation  for  which  these  consequential 

amendments are required.   Following the  merger, total customer base of the SBI 

has increased to the tune of 40 crores with a branch network of 24,000 and nearly 

59,000 ATMs across the country.  SBI has become the largest commercial bank in 

India in terms of assets, deposits, branches, customers and employees. Having 

made  this  significant  investment  in  technology,  SBI  is  in  a  position  to  offer  the 

widest portfolio of digital products and services.  Thanks to the merger, additional 

customers  will  access  and  benefit  through  these  products.    The  Narasimham 

Committee had envisaged in 1991 that the SBI should progressively merge all the 

seven  subsidiaries  with  itself.    Long  thereafter,  in  2008,  the  State  Bank  of 

Saurashtra was the first to merge with the SBI.  Two years later, the State Bank of 

Indore was integrated.  First, the associated banks had enjoyed a common identity 

with the SBI for long.  Second, the SBI had been exercising the tight operational 

control  of  the  associated  banks  from  inception.    Third,  all  associated  banks  were 

operating under the same Information Technology platform like the SBI. In 2002, 

it  had  engaged  Tata  Consultancy  Services  to  roll  out  a  core  banking  solution 

covering  the  entire  group.  So,  the  associated  banks  were  beneficiaries  of  the 

common  code  and the  linkages.   Fourth, the treasury  operations  of  the  associated 

banks  had been  integrated  with the  SBI  for  several  years.   Lastly,  the  major  loan 

decisions  of  the  Associated  Banks  used  to  be  vetted  first  by  the  SBI  under 

centralized  control  before  the  proposals  received  local  approval  at  the  concerned 

associated  Banks'  Board.  In  Pradhan  Mantri  Jan  Dhan  Accounts,  there  is  no 

restriction or there is no penalty for not maintaining a minimum balance.   

 

Consolidation  in  the  banking  sector  is  the  need  of  the  hour.  Capital 

Adequacy  Ratio  for  many  Public  Sector  Banks,  especially  the  smaller  ones  have 

been  steadily  declining  mainly  due  to  higher  provisioning  requirements  for  poor 

asset  quality.    It  is  also  not  possible  for  the  Government  to  always  step  in  with 

capital infusion into the banks due to budgetary constraints.  Against this backdrop, 

consolidation  in  the  banking  sector  assumes  significance  and  a  certain  criticality 

with  a  view  to  salvaging  the  smaller  and  weaker  PSB.    On  the  human  resource 

side, it will provide a larger pool of talent to tap into far ensuring better corporate 

governance. I would like to request our Government to open more bank branches 

in the rural areas. My suggestion would be that in the name of financial inclusion, 

which  we  have  started  now,  we  have  to  give  loan  to  the  marginal  and  the  small 

famers.  If the government can do something on this front, it will be appreciated.   

 

