    I  want  to  thank  the  entire 

House.    As  many  as  25  Members  have  participated  in  the  discussion  but  all  have 

supported the Bill.  Earlier, there were only four IIITs and now the fifth one is being 

established  at  Kurnul.    We  have  to  go  for  public-private  partnership  for  further 

expansion.  There is apprehension that this will lead to exorbitant hike in fees but this 

fear is unfounded.  We have made much progress in the field of software but there is 

a lot to do in the field of hardware.  We have made neither Google nor Facebook nor 

Twitter nor Windows.  Our talents are doing all these in foreign countries but they are 

working for others.  Therefore, we must attract back the best of the best talents.  That 

is why a call for Make-in-India has been given.  The world is changing fast.  We need 

modern education and institutes of national importance and this Bill has been brought 

with  this  objective.  We  need  everybody's  participation  in  this.    So,  we  should  not 

undermine  the  importance  of  private  partnership.    Indian  Institute  of  Sciences  is 

conducting  experiments  in  nano  technology.    One  laboratory  has  cost  Rs.250  crore.  

Another centre has to be set up at a cost of Rs.3000 crore.  But we should certainly 

make  such  investment  because  we  have  already  lost  some  opportunity.    Now,  we 

should  not  miss  any  revolution.    Talents  are  there  in  all  classes  of  society.    Smart 

India  Hackathon  was  organized  last  time.    Around  42,000  students  from  more  than 

2000 engineering colleges participated in Hackathon. We should try to provide best 

facilities to the professionals and attract them back.  They are coming back as well.  

Somebody  had  said  that  unemployment  is  growing  in  IT  sector  but  this  is  not  fact.  

Mr. Chandrashekar, head of TCS and the NASCOM, both estimated that 70 lakh new 

employments  will  be  generated  in  IT  sector  alone.    An  off  campus  IIIT  of  IIIT, 

Allahabad  was  set  up  at  Amethi  in  the  year  2005  but  not  a  single  faculty  was 

appointed  there.    The  students  staged  an  agitation  demanding  their  transfer  to  their 

main institute at Allahabad.  We only fulfilled the demand of these students and set 

up  a  college  of  Ambedkar  University  in  that  building  which  is  functioning  well 

catering to thousands of students of Amethi and Sultanpur districts.  The state should 

also allocate funds for education.  Those who can afford to pay will have to pay hiked 

fees but there is scholarship scheme for poor students.  The students should get good 

education  so  that  they  can  make  progress.    Good  education  and  good  institute 

increase employability.  We are doing all out efforts to fill up the vacancies in all the 

institutes.    The  other  thing  is  that  the  institute  of  higher  education  should  get 

autonomy.  IIITs are functional in Manipur and at Guwahati  in North East.  All the 

rules relating to reservation are followed.  I welcome the suggestions of all the hon. 

Members.  Education is not a subject of party politics but a subject of nation building.  

We  all  should  work  together  in  this  direction.  I  thank  all  the  hon.  Members  for 

supporting this Bill.  

The Bill was passed. 

 

