  The  education,  science  and 

technology  immensely  contribute  to  the  development  of  any  country.    Hence,  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  Hon.  Minister  to  bring  in  this  bill.    I  would  also  like  to 

congratulate the people of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh as this is going to usher in 

opportunities  for  their  youths  to  scale  the  pinnacle  of  progress  in  the  fields  of 

engineering, technology, management, education, science and arts.  America ranks 

first  in  development  because  science  and  technology  is  of  the  best  quality  there.  

This Bill has been introduced to amend National Institute of Technology, Science 

Education and Research (NITSER) Act, 2007.  This Bill seeks to ensure education 

and  research  facility  at  graduate  and  post-graduate  level  in  various  branches  of 

science  and  technology.    In  total  there  are  38  top  institutes  of  science  and 

technology  in  our  country  which  not  only  meet  the  growing  demand  of  human 

resource of the country but also work as milestone to set it up as a world power.  It 

is  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  free  India  that  the  hon.  Prime  Minister  has 

sanctioned Rs.75 crore for scholarship and Rs.50 crore for setting up Vishva Sewa 

Sansthan.  The Government is committed to lead the country in the area of science 

and technology at the peak on world level.  The Prime Minister has implemented 

dozens  of  path-breaking  schemes  like  Make-in-India,  Digital  India,  Skill  India, 

Start Up, Stand Up etc.  This endvour would pave the path of leading the country 

to  the  top.    In  the  past  there  were  cases  of  brain  drain.    Now  henceforth  the 

talented  persons  of  our  country  will  have  opportunity  to  study  and  involve  in 

research  work  and  lead  the  country  to  its  peak.    This  is  the  country  where  the 

vedas,  the  upnishads,  the  purans  were  authored.    This  nation  is  an  immense 

reservoir of knowledge.  Therefore, I request the Government to set up an institute 

in Uttarakhand also so that it may pursue its work related to the Himalayas and its 

ranges and leave lasting impression as a center of learning.   

 

