    There  should  be  a  clear  direction  as  to 

whether  the  Centre  will  continue  with  the  cess  and  how  the  States  have  to 

manage the losses after period of 5 years.  I suggest there should be a permanent 

mechanism  for  the  same.  In  case  of  GST,  the  proposed  40  per  cent  tax  is 

abnormally  high  as  few  European  countries  have  but  education  and  health 

facilities  are  free  of  cost  in  those  countries.    Taxation  under  the  GST  for 

essential  services  alone  cannot  be  justified.    The  Government  should  make 

proper  utilisation  of  the  funds  received  from  the  new  tax  regime  for  the 

universal  provision  of  essential  goods  and  services.    Industry  needs  time  to 

adopt the new system.  They should be given adequate time and they should not 

be  harassed  for  slow  compliance,  particularly  the  small  and  medium  scale 

enterprises.    The  multiple  tax  slabs  goes  against  "One  Nation  One  Tax",  this 

again complicates the tax system.  13th Finance Commission had recommended 

a  uniform  rate  of  12  percent  and  keeping  essential  goods  and  services  outside 

the  tax  net.  The  Government  must  be  very  particular  that  the  lobbying  by 

different interest groups does not influence this classification of goods and also 

not to complete the process in a hurried manner.   The Government must clarify 

as to why it is not following the devolution formula as suggested by the Finance 

Commission.  The  Constitution  does  not  allow  a  tax  to  be  levied  or  collected 

except  by  the  authority  of  law.    Then,  by  what  intention  is  the  Government 

proposing  to  notify  the  CGST  rates  on  its  own  without  approval  of  the 

Parliament?    Whatever  rules  and  laws  be  framed  by  the  Government,  they 

should  not  surpass  the  Constitution  and  should  ultimately  benefit  the  common 

people of the country and not some selected business entities and corporates.  

 

