 These are four important 

Bills and are being taken up together for consideration as their subject matters 

and references are same.  The system of indirect taxes extant anterior to 101st 

amendment  to  the  constitution  continues  to  exist  even  today  and  is  likely  to 

continue till 15th September this year.  Under this system, the right to levy some 

of the taxes was the jurisdiction of the Centre and the right to levy some of other 

taxes  was  under  the  jurisdiction  of  States.    But  these  Bills  seek  to  ensure  the 

movement of all the goods and services all over India, to set up uniform system 

of  taxation,  facilitate  the  interface  of  an  assessee  with  only  one  assessee 

authority.  The tax proceeds, so collected, will be shared by both the Centre and 

the  States.    This  system  is  somewhat  different  from  the  earlier  one.    It  is 

different because we are now creating by law a jurisdiction simultaneously both 

in  the  Centre  and  the  States  and,  in  the  process,  handing  over  the  indirect  tax 

administration  to  the  first  federal  institution  that  India  has  created  where  the 

Centre  and  the  States  both  will  participate.    In  this  respect,  the  Goods  and 

Services  Tax  Council  made  unanimous  recommendations  for  five  laws,  out  of 

which  four  laws  will  come  up  before  the  Parliament  and  one  before  the 

Legislative  Assemblies  of  all  the  States  and  two  Union  Territories  where 

Legislative  Assembly  exists.    First  law  is  the  central  GST  law  which  includes 

the  integration  of  taxes  to  be  incurred  on  Goods  and  Services,  determine  the 

ceiling  of  taxation  and  collection  of  taxes  etc.    Second  law  is  the  SGST  law 

which will not come up before the Centre but before 31 Legislative Assemblies.  

This  law  will  be  a  mirror  image  of  the  Central  Law  and  will provide  for  as to 

how  the  GST  will  be  implemented  in  every  State.   Third  law  is  the  Integrated 

GST  which  will  handle  the  taxes  likely  to  be  incurred  on  the  transactions  of 

inter-state trades from one State to another State and from one Union Territory 

to the other Union Territory.  Fourth is the Union Territory GST law which, in a 

way, stands to be the CGST law as it incorporates its provisions and implement 

them  in  the  Union  Territories.    Fifth  and  the  last  one  deals  with  the  system 

under  which  provisions  have  been  made  to  provide  compensation  to  the  State 

which suffers loss as a result of its implementation.  A provision has been made 

for  compensation  cess  in  order  to  provide  for  compensation  to  such  States 

which includes tax exceeding 28 per cent on the luxury items.   Apart from this, 

the  GST  council  is  India's  first  federal  institution  where  sovereignty  of  the 

Centre and the States in relation to indirect taxes has been pooled together in a 

federal  institution.    Hence,  to  create  India's  first  federal  institution,  it  is 

incumbent  on  all  of  us  to  make  sure  that  the  federal  institution  works.  

Therefore,  I  hope,  we  are  guided  to  maintain  that  delicate  balance  of  that 

relationship  itself.    With  these  few  words,  I  commend  these  laws  for  the 

consideration of the House. 

 

