 On the face of it, this amendment is a very simple 

straightforward amendment to the NIT Act.  It only adds one more NIT in Andhra 

Pradesh  consequent  on  the  bifurcation  of  the  old  State  between  Telangana  and 

Andhra  Pradesh.    But  this  apparently  small  amendment  raises  some  very  deep 

questions  about  our  educational  policy  and  the  future  direction  of  the  younger 

generation in our country.  We started out with eight regional engineering colleges 

and now, we have many more but the 20 of them are upgradations, from the status 

of  regional  engineering  colleges.    Subsequently,  10  more  NITs  have  been  added 

and  today, we  are  about to  welcome  in  this  Parliament the  birth  of  a new  NIT  in 

Andhra  Pradesh.    Now  we  have  to  have  a  fine  balance  between  teaching  and 

research in all of our educational institutes including our universities both central 

and state in addition to the IITs, the NITs and the IISERs.  When we go ahead and 

announce  the  establishment  of  new  institutions,  do  we  actually  anticipate  the 

faculty  requirements  for  these  new  institutes?    I  think  we  need  to  pay  very  close 

attention  to  these  issues.    Do  we  pay  adequate  attention  to  institutes  for  the 

Humanities  and  the  Arts?    What  is  happening  in  our  Institutes  of  Technology, 

particularly the NITs is that we are not  producing well-rounded citizens.  Even in 

Institutes of Technology there should be arrangements to teach subjects in the field 

of Arts and Humanities.  Two years ago, the then Finance Minister had announced 

that  there  was  going  to  be  a  national  institute  of  Humanities  in  Madhya  Pradesh.  

Even if we are not able to set up very many national institutes of importance in the 

field of Humanities and Arts, there are other ways in which Humanities and Arts 

can be supported in our universities and colleges.  We have a global role to play.  

We  must compete with the rest of the world and  make sure that our students and 

younger generation are getting the best education possible whether in the field of 

science education or in the field of arts and humanities.   

 

