 I am proud to say that our top three management 

institutes  -  ABC  that  is,  Ahmedabad,  Bangalore  and  Calcutta,  do  compare 

favourably with the best institutes of the world.  These three come within the top 

200 management institutes in the world and now these institutes are being declared 

as  the  institutes  of  national  importance.    The  Government  has  clearly  stated  that 

this is done so that they can award degrees.  Now, they will give MBA and Ph.D 

degrees, which is a very, very welcome step.  Also the big thing about this is that 

the  IIMs  are  being  given  complete  autonomy.    Since  IITs  are  also  under  you,  I 

would  urge  you  to  give  autonomy  to  the  IITs  also.    However,  the  national  level 

institutions  like  AIIMS  and  National  Law  Schools  are  not  under  this  Ministry.  

Whatever  is  under  our  Ministry,  you  follow  this  policy  of  giving  them  autonomy 

which we will appreciate.  There are so many private institutes of management but 

still  the  IIMs  occupy  the  top  position  which  means  that  the  institutions  set  up  by 

the Central Government are still the best in the country.  I want the government to 

really maintain this pristine superiority which the Central Government institutions 

have  achieved.    As  I  said  earlier,  one  of  the  objects  mentioned  is  that  the 

management  education  and  research  should  reach  top  levels.   But  the  research  in 

management has not developed so much.  So, I hope that this step will give  thrust 

to research in management education which is changing every day.  Similarly it is 

also necessary for management experts to become IT-enabled.  Now the question is 

that Government has not put any control on the fees.  Apart from that, now already 

the fees of IIMs are very high and unless the students get scholarship or education 

loans  of  around  Rs.  20  lakh,  it  is  not  possible  for  a  bright  boy  even  if  he  has 

cracked  the  Common  Admission  Test  (CAT)  for  IIMs.    I  would  like  more 

scholarships  to  be  instituted  by  the  IIMs  so  that  no  bright  student  is  denied 

management  education.    Please  ensure  this  so  that  money  does  not  become  a 

stumbling block for pursuing management studies.  I hope that management in our 

country  will improve  and  India  will become  a  big  economic  power in another  10 

years.   

 

