  I  support  the  Right  of  Children  to  Free  and 

Compulsory Education (Amendment) Bill, 2017.  We want to secure the future of 

our young generation in this competitive world of today.  So, it is natural that we 

provide  them  quality  education  through  trained  teachers,  otherwise  we  would 

probably  not  do  justice  with  them.    The  hon.  Minister  has  introduced  this 

Amendment Bill to ensure that two types of India do not come up.  There will be 

disparity between children coming out from the ill-equipped  schools of rural India 

and  the  ones  passing  out  from  the  CBSE  and  ICSE  schools  situated  in  cities.    I 

would like to congratulate the hon. Minister of Human Resource Development for 

getting  it  adopted  in  the  rules  of  the  right  to  education  thereby  ensuring  learning 

outcome  assessment  in  the  primary  schools  in  all  the  States.    Around  30  lakh 

samples  will  be  collected  from  the  primary  and  upper  primary  schools  across the 

States of the country through which at least some feedback to the parents could be 

ensured.  We can be proud of the fact that talent is available in rural India as well.  

There  are  several  talented  people  from  villages  everywhere,  be  it  in  the  field  of 

sports,  services  or  science.    There  is  no  dearth  of  talent  in  the  country,  what  is 

required is to nurture them further.  For this purpose trained teachers are required.  

I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  Government  for  taking  this  step  whereby  it  has 

assumed  the  responsibility  of  providing  training  to  the  teachers  not  only  in 

government and aided schools but also in private schools.  The Ministry of Human 

Resource  Development  has  brought  about  its  new  education  policy  based  on  33 

new  themes  out  of  which  13  themes  have  been  chosen  for  the  school  education 

only.  One of the most important theme of the new education policy focuses on the 

development  of  the  best  teachers  and  what  can  be  a  better  thing  than  this.    The 

Minister  of  Human  Resource  Development  is  going  to  realize  the  vision  of  the 

Government  under  which  every  school  is  going  to  get  not  only  a  trained  teacher 

but  also  the  best  teacher.    The  Right  to  Education  Act  was  implemented  on  10th 

April, 2010 for ensuring free and compulsory education to the children between the 

age  of  6  and  14.    Section  23(2)  of  the  Act  was  also  created  for  a  particular 

objective  but  we  could  not  achieve  the  object  till  the  year  2015.    However,  the 

government is going to take a concrete step in this direction today.   

 

