 The temporary exclusion 

of petroleum, crude and other products may not be advisable because it may lead to 

inflation.  So these products may be included in this Bill.  The tobacco is a part of 

the GST base but the Centre alone can levy special excise duty. Therefore, there is 

inequality between the Centre and the States and that inequality could be avoided.  

In other countries, GST ranges from three per cent to ten per cent whereas India is 

proposing  to  have  twenty  seven  per  cent.  Have  the  taxes  being  taxed  by  various 

States  been  taken  into  consideration  where  GST  regime  is  being  introduced?  

Government should consider continuation of special rates on the processed food in 

certain  backward  areas.    Government  should  also  consider  merit  rates  on  certain 

items.    Also,  there  is  no  clarity  on  taxation  on  work  contracts,  software  and 

intangible things.  That also needs certain clarification.  I request the Government 

bring  alcohol  into  GST  regime  as  early  as  possible.    The  next  most  important 

things  is  the  automatic  compensation  mechanism.  What  most  of  the  States  are 

observing  is  that  the  Central  Government  will  compensate  States  for  loss  of 

revenue  arising  on  account  of  implementation  of  the  GST  for  a  period  up  to  five 

years.    But  what  would  happen  after  five  years?    Therefore,  to  make  it  a 

harmonized structure  and  ensure  a  uniformed  market, an  automatic  compensation 

mechanism should be evolved.  The other important issue is that the States should 

be given opportunity to have additional resources in case of natural calamities and 

disasters.  At the time of implementation of GST, the concerns of Special Category 

States may also be taken into consideration.  In my view, a proper monitoring and 

evaluation  cell  should  be  created  as  soon  as  possible  to  make  the  GST  effective 

and  to  study  its  impact  on  GDP,  inflation  and  other  aspects  of  economy.    The 

Centre  should  also  provide  technical  assistance  to  the  States  particularly  for  e-

filing of tax returns.   

 

