  This  Bill  proposes 

comprehensive  changes  in  the  Benami  Transaction  (Prohibition)  Act,  1988.    It 

expands  the  definition  of  benami  transactions,  establishes  an  Adjudicating 

Authority  and  an  Appellate  Tribunal.    It  also  increases  the  penalty  for  those 

indulging  in  benami  transactions.    We  welcome  this  Bill.  Why  the  benami 

transactions  are  so  prevalent?  I  think,  it  is  obvious  that  one  has  to  hide  wealth 

earned  from  undisclosed  sources.  There  is  a  big  difference  between  the  actual 

value and the Government official prices. We do not have  good identification and 

valuation  of  properties  and  entities.  So,  by  this  Act  alone,  however  well  it  is 

implemented,  I  do  not  think,  we  can  eliminate  benami  transactions.  We  need  a 

gamut of reforms and we need those that will eliminate these factors that will aid 

and  facilitate  benami  transactions.  I  am  glad  the  Finance  Minister  and  the 

Government  has  taken  into  cognizance  and  the  Government  is  simultaneously 

taking  a  series  of  systematic  steps  and  reforms.  We  have  to  distinguish  these 

benami  transactions  as  predicate  offences  and  benami  transactions  as  primary 

crimes. I have submitted an amendment to this Bill. In benami transactions, where 

it  is  predicate  offence,  the  land  should  go  to  the  Central  Government.  Benami 

transactions where the State Government land was illegally allocated to somebody, 

to  favour  somebody,  then  it  should  go  back  to  the  State  Government.  If  it  is  an 

income  tax  evasion  and  the  benami  transaction  is  caught,  then  it  will  go  to  the 

Central Government. If it is corruption at the Central Government, then, I think the 

land in the benami transaction should go back to the Central Government. We also 

need  to  take  cognizance  of  the  Standing  Committee  Report  saying  that  the 

investigation  by  the  initiating  officer  should  be  completed  within  a  specific  time 

frame.  It  is  better  if  time  frame  is  mentioned.  Information  technology  has  some 

problem  when  applied  to  detecting  benami  transactions.  Land  identification,  land 

valuation  and  location  codes  should  be  there  for  this  purpose.  Standardization  of 

information relating to land deeds is required.  

 

