  I  am  very  happy  to  note  that  the 

Government  has  allocated  credit  of  about  Rs.  10  lakh  crore  for  agriculture.  

Reducing  the  interest  for  the  farmers  is  also  a  welcome  step.    The  latest  scheme 

introduced by the Government called Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, is with 

less premium and maximum benefit for the farmer.  Krishi Vikas Yojana helps the 

State  Governments  in  the  agricultural  development  activities.    Then,  we  have 

Krishi  Sinchai  Yojana  to  increase  the  coverage  of  irrigation  in  the  country.    The 

Government has initiated a programme called Soil Health Card.  Neem coated urea 

is one  of the  revolutionary  steps to  reduce  black  marketing of urea.   The  farmers 

should  be  supplied  good  quality  seeds.    I  would  like  to  thank  the  hon.  Prime 

Minister  and  the  Government  of  India  for  extending  100  per  cent  financial 

assistance for the completion of Polavaram Project in Andhra Pradesh.  I think, the 

agricultural profession  has  become  a  non-profitable profession nowadays  .   If  we 

want  that  an  agriculturist  should  be  in  agriculture,  then  the  profession  of 

agriculture should be made profitable.  India having a coastline of 7500 kilometres, 

it  offers  a  very  good  opportunity  to  exploit  its  marine  resources.    In  marine 

resources, the  commercialization of  fishery  activity  has  come  down.   There  is no 

deep  sea  fishing  vessels  as  on  today.    The  reason  is  that  deep-sea  fishing  has 

become non-remunerative.  I would like to request the Minister for Agriculture to 

evolve  a  comprehensive  policy  on  deep-sea  fishing.    There  is  a  PROM  society 

which is encouraging phosphate rich organic manure where the phosphate can be 

mixed with the organic manure or cow dung.  We are spending a lot of subsidy on 

DAP.  I think, the subsidy burden of the Government can be reduced if the PROM 

Phosphate  organic  rich  manure  is  encouraged.    I  would  like  to  request  the 

Government of India to think about this.   

 

