  The  GST  Bill  will, 

undoubtedly, have lots of benefits like concrete tax structure, broadening of tax 

base, simplifying tax procedures, avoiding duplication and cascading effects and 

creating a single common market.  I just want to ask the Government if there are 

any future plans to bring the alcohol and petroleum products within the gambit 

of  GST.    At  present,  the  Central  Government  has  agreed  to  compensate  the 

States for five years.  I think that the Government would also continue it even 

after five years if the loss continues.  One challenge that is still there before the 

Government is of categorization of commodities as well as of companies.  The 

Government  should  have  brought  this  Bill  after  resorting  to  these  important 

issues.    It  is  good  to  charge  alcoholic  beverages.    The  Government  should 

reconsider  putting  additional  cess  on  aerated  drinks,  particularly  non-alcoholic 

beverages  because  the  common  man  are  also  taking  them  in  big  quantities.  

When it comes to the offshore jurisdiction, earlier it was vested with the Central 

Government.    Now,  they  are  giving  the  power  upto  12  nautical  miles  to  the 

States.  If the sea is shared by two states, every time there will be a big problem 

for  the  fishermen  of  both  the  States  which  needs  to  be  resolved.    The 

Government  is  putting  additional  cess,  whenever  there  is  a  loss  of  revenue  by 

the  States  on  consumer  durables  which  also  include  a  small  refrigerator,  air-

conditioner and all that.  So, I think this issue should be re-looked at. Presently, 

the tax base is shared by the Government of India and State Governments in the 

ratio of 50:50, but now with the advent of GST, the entire base is likely to go to 

the  Government  of  India.  In  the  long  run,  the  concept  of  federalism  may 

disappear as far as financial matters are concerned.  So, at least the companies, 

which have the GST turnover of less than Rs.1.5  crore, should be given to the 

State Government.  Besides, stiff rules are required for tax defaulters.   

 

