 I must admit with great pride that this is 

one Bill that our State, Maharashtra, is fully prepared for.  We have trained a lot 

of  people,  and  our  software  is  ready.    My  first  pointed  question  to  the  hon. 

Finance  Minister  is  everywhere,  data  proves  that  wherever  GST  has  been 

implemented there have been hiccups.  Presently as the sector-wise growth rate 

is  declining,  so  how  is  this  going  to  hit  our  GDP  at  this  stage?    The  second 

question is about FDIs.  I would like to ask what would be the repercussions on 

FDIs?    Parliamentary  powers  are  being  given  to  the  Council.    It  was  quite  a 

worrisome  situation  that  first of  all  Parliament  is  the  supreme  authority  in  this 

country  to  make  legislations.    These  are  Constitution  amendments  that  we  are 

making.  Has  really  the  Government  thought  it  through?    The  second  most 

important  point  is  the  'data  privacy'.    Crores  of  data  is  going  to  be  generated 

every day.  What precautionary measure is the Government taking so that none 

of this data will ever be leaked?  Next is compensation to States.  If there is an 

economic  crisis,  are  the  luxury  items  going  to  be  good  enough  to  pay  for  the 

compensation?  But in the Bill, there is no clarification as to what the roadmap 

is  going  to  be.      Another  problem  that  is  going  to  come  through  with  GST  is 

compliance.  There are 36 registrations that people will have to go through.  If I 

am doing business in Maharashtra, Punjab and Karnataka, I will have to register 

in three different places.  The soul of the Bill is to make things simplified.  I am 

more worried about it because more and more automotive machines are going to 

come.    What  is  going  to  happen  to  the  jobs?    There  is  going  to  be  a  serious 

crisis.    As  far  rules  and  regulations  are  concerned,    I  would  urge  him  that  he 

could  get  these  rules  and  regulations  quickly  because  still  there  is  no  clarity 

about  GST  in  people.    There  have  been  a  lot  of  changes  through  the  Council, 

which  are  not  in  the  public  domain.    The  other  very  important  point  is  about 

GST Composition Levy because the benefits of this Composition Levy have not 

been extended to the small service providers.  I urge the Government to look at 

the GST Composition Levy.  I would also urge the hon. Minister to look at the 

taxation  of  work  contract  and  re-think  of  it.    Now,  I  would  come  to  input  tax 

credit availability.  So, why the Government is not giving this input tax credit?  

This directly affects the telecommunication towers and the pipeline.  If this tax 

benefit  is  not  going  to  go  to  these  common  people,  then  what  is  the  point  of 

having all these great programmes like Digital India, Ujwal India and all these 

infrastructure  projects.    In  that  case,  the  cost  of  all  this  will  be  given  to  the 

consumers.  This is also a very important point which is going to hurt the poor 

people of this country.   

 

