  This  bill  intends  to 

protect people afflicted with mental problems and redress their suffering.  The care 

and  protection of  the  mentally  disturbed is  the responsibility  of  our  Government, 

and  therefore  adequate  financial  provisions  should  also  be  included  in  the  bill.  

Physical health and mental health are both equally important.  In recent times there 

is an increasing trend of mental illness among our children and youth.  So we are 

passing through a phase, when, mental illness is becoming more widespread in our 

society.  So it is appropriate, that the Parliament is now accepting and upholding, 

the  rights  of  the  mentally  ill  by  passing  this  bill.    Various  states  of  our  country 

have  their  own  mental  health  authorities.    But  what  are  the  facilities  that  we 

provide for the mentally ill, in various states?  The only national institute, which 

can  be  proud  of,  is  the  NIMHANS  institute,  at  Bangalore.    The  other  State 

Government  hospitals  have  very  limited  facilities.    All  the  facilities  for  their 

treatment,  and  rehabilitating  the  mentally  ill  once  they  are  cured,  are  equally 

important.  Government hospitals are overcrowded.  They are like jails.  I would 

say that the poor mental patients are subjected to worse to tortures than are even 

meted  out  to  prisoners.    We  have  to  see  their  plight.    Even  when  a  patient  is 

certified as fully cured by a competent doctor, the family members of that patient 

are  not  ready  to  take  him  or  her  back  home.    Even  after  being  cured,  they  are 

compelled to live with other patients in a mental asylum.  My  suggestion, is that 

the  states  have  separate  mental  health  authorities,  who  should  identify  the  cured 

                                                 
* Original in Malayalam. 

patients  from  time  to  time  and  help  them  to  rehabilitate  and  if  possible  find 

employment.    A  pension    amount,  to  support  them  is  also  essential.    There  are 

social problems.  All kinds of drugs are within the reach of our children.  So there 

are factors that disturb the very mental health of our children.  Lot many children 

suffer from depression.  All states should have NIMHANS like model institutions 

for health care.  We have to ensure that all states, have, qualified psychiatrists and 

psychologists.  For this, we have to increase the number of psychiatry seats in the 

PG courses of all medical colleges.  I support this bill. 

 

