  I  would  like  to  request  the  hon. 

Members to pay a special attention to this Bill because this Bill is the need of the 

hour.    We  have  been  discussing  about  some  regulation  in  the  Real  Estate  for  the 

last  11  years  because  all  the  buyers/consumers  across  the  country  are  agitated 

rightly  and  they  are  not  getting  adequate  redressal  system  as  per  the  previous 

arrangement.  So, keeping that in mind, during the UPA regime, a Bill was brought 

and the Bill was referred to the Standing Committee.  The Standing Committee has 

made  certain  recommendations.    Out  of  30  and  odd  recommendations,  22-23 

recommendations were accepted.  In between, there was a change of Government 

and the Government that came has brought it in the form of a new Bill.  The Bill, 

which  was  approved  by  the  Standing  Committee  consisting  of  Lok  Sabha  and 

Rajya Sabha Members was again referred to the Select Committee of Rajya Sabha 

and the Select Committee of the other House has done an excellent job.  The Bill 

was debated and decided in the Rajya Sabha almost unanimously.  The purpose of 

the  Bill  is  that  it  is not  only  going  to  make  consumer  the  king,  but bring  in  such 

needed regulation and transparency to the people who are involved in this sector.  

This Bill seeks to create a set of rights and obligations for both the consumers as 

well as developers.  Secondly, this Bill seeks to encourage both of them to live up 

to the expectations of each other as per the agreement entered into by both of them.  

If they mutually agreed upon, nobody is going to intervene.  Unfortunately, what is 

happening  is  that  the  buyers  or  the  consumers  are  always  at  the  receiving  end.  

This  Bill  seeks  to  establish  a  regulatory  authority  with  which  the  developer  will 

register the project to be launched.  Secondly, while doing so, they have to declare 

all  project  related  information,  including  the  details  of  developers,  status  of  land, 

various approvals, project schedule, information regarding architects and structural 

engineers,  etc.,  so  that  there  is  transparency.    All  these  things  will  be  in  public 

domain.    Thirdly,  the  disclosure  helps  the  home  buyers  to  make  an  informed 

choice.    Apart  from  promoting  fair  play  in  real  estate  transactions,  it  also  aims 

ensuring timely execution of the projects - timely execution is a major issue.  The 

Bill  seeks  to  provide  uniform  regulatory  environment  and  orderly  growth  of  the 

real  estate  sector.    We  feel  that  the  real  estate  developers  are  also  partners  in 

development.    We  in  the  Government  do  not  believe  that  private  sector  is  bad.  

Public and private partnership is the need of the hour.  The manner in which it was 

passed  in  the  Upper  House  clearly  highlights  that  the  highest  Legislature  of  the 

land  could  do  it  to  further  the  aspirations  of  the  people.    I  was  moved  by  the 

response of the public on social media also, after the Rajya Sabha cleared the Bill.  

Our aim of Housing for all by 2022 is not possible by mere efforts of the Central 

Government or State Government alone.  Government of India, State Governments 

and then private sector also should join in a big way.  We have so many prestigious 

projects in the country.  That is why even the FDI also is coming in this particular 

sector.    There  is  so  much  concern  among  the  industries  circle  as  to  what  will 

happen  to  the ongoing  projects, on  ongoing  projects  whatever agreement one has 

entered earlier stands.  All of what I am proposing will apply for the future projects 

along  with  the  projects  which  have  got  stuck  now.  Regarding  the  provision  of 

imprisonment  for  any  violation  of  the  orders  of  the  regulatory  authority,  some 

concern is expressed in certain quarters including some sections of the media.   If 

they are not violating any of the orders of the regulatory authority, nobody is going 

to touch them.  The consumers courts also will have jurisdiction with regard to the 

cases wherein some people have a grievance.  There cannot be a consumer without 

a developer and vice versa.  And we have to protect the interests of both.  Nobody 

should create any hurdles with regard to land acquisition.  I would therefore, urge 

upon all the people concerned try to come to some sort of understanding about the 

Land  Acquisition  Bill  so  that  the  land  is  made  available  for  the  housing  sector.  

The  Government  is  aware  that  40  approvals  are  required  for  housing  project  and 

the important thing is that they should be given in time.  Approvals are taking six 

months  time,  one  year,  two  years  or  three  years  also.    That  is  why,  during  the 

discussion  on  this  Bill,  I  appeal  through  this  House  to  all  the  State  Governments 

and also urban local bodies to be proactive.  We insist on early completion and we 

must also see that speedy approvals are given.  I am dealing with that separately.   

 

Model  Building  Bye  Laws  are  being  finalised  by  the  Ministry  of  Urban 

Development  in  consultation  with  the  Ministry  of  Environment  and  Forests.    We 

are at an advanced stage and will be announced for the public so that they need not 

come  to  Delhi  for  environmental  clearance  for  a  project  up  to  a  particular  level.  

That  responsibility  is  given  to  the  urban  local  bodies.  Revision  of  National 

Building Code is finalised after taking our suggestions.  Ultimately, our target is to 

ensure  that  all  required  approvals  are  given  in  about  a  month's  time.    To  ensure 

housing  for  all,  the  Government  has  launched  the  Prime  Minister's  Awas  Yojana 

with  an  intention  of  constructing  two  crore  houses  for  urban  poor.    Keeping  in 

view  my  request  to  give  housing  an  infrastructure  status,  a  number  of 

announcements  regarding  the  concessions,  whether  they  are  service  tax,  income 

tax or FDI, have been made by colleague,  Hon. Finance Minister.  I will be further 

working with him.  I would like to see a day wherein the interest rates are further 

brought down.  The only way to bring down the interest rate is that the economy 

should grow.  In this Bill, we have almost incorporated majority of the suggestions 

of  the  Standing  Committee,  the  Select  Committee  and  also  suggestions  given 

informally by various people.  Keeping that in mind, I would urge upon this august 

House to please understand and appreciate the intent as also the objectives of this 

important Bill and extend full support.   

 

