    I  rise  to  support  this  Bill 

related to the Budget of Uttarakhand.  On 18th March Appropriation Bill was being 

passed in the Uttarakhand Assembly.  The crux of the issue is whether or not the 

Appropriation  Bill  was  passed.   The truth  is that it  was  not.   In  the  Assembly  27 

BJP  Members  and  9  dissident  Congress  members  stood  up  and  said  they  voted 

against  the  Appropriation  Bill.    There  is  CD  evidence  in  this  regard.    In  the 

morning 27 BJP Members wrote to the Governor demanding division as they had 

no  faith  in  the  Speaker.    35-36  Members  voted  against  that  Bill  and  only  32  in 

favour.    The  demand  for  division  of  votes  was  not  accepted.    The  Assembly 

proceeding records that demand was made for division of votes.  35 Members then 

and  there  wrote  to  the  Assembly  Secretary  for  vote  of  no  confidence.    This 

Government should be dismissed.  This is the demand of the Congress Members.  

On 6th December, 1992 Governments of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal 

Pradesh  and  that  of  Rajasthan  were  dismissed.    What  was  their  fault?    Can  it  be 

justified?    Why  was  government  headed  by  Arjun  Munda  dismissed  twice?    The 

Congress has a long history of misuse of Article 356.   In 2002 industrial package 

was given for 10 year till 2013.  But the Congress in 2007 withdrew it.  The first 

sting is regarding the Secretary to the Chief Minister involving Rs.20 crores and is 

heard saying this with the concurrence of the Chief Minister.  After the fall of the 

Government second sting is under the CBI investigation.  Only yesterday another 

sting  was  revealed  in  which  Congress  members  said  Chief  Minister  has  taken 

Rs.27  crore  from  mining.    Hence,  Article  356  has  not  been  misused.      I 

congratulate the President that if Article 356 has been judiciously used anywhere, 

it is in Uttarakhand.  I welcome the Vote on Account.  The welfare schemes should 

continue.    Our  Government  initiated  the  schemes  such  as  108.    It  was  our 

Government that made it possible to complete MBBS course in Rs.15,000.  We did 

lots of good work whether through Gaura Devi Dhankalyan Yojana or Nanda Devi 

Dhankalyan Yojana or whether relating to the empowerment of girls or women or 

poor  or  farmers.    Our  Government  in  2010  made  the  largest  payment  to  cane 

farmers in the country.  I am thankful to the Minister of Finance for conceiving an 

university  regarding  Himalyas  which  would  become  the  source  of  inspiration 

throughout  the  world.    Himalayas  needs  to  be  protected  and  its  biodiversity 

conserved.  Uttarakhand was on the forefront of development only under BJP rule.  

If  anyone  is  guilty  of  instability  in  Uttarakhand  it  is  the  Congress.    Our 

Government  took  a  lot  of  steps  for  welfare  of  solders.    Our  'vision-2020'  be 

implemented.  I again express my gratitude to the Minister of Finance for bringing 

this Bill here which I support.  

 

