  Today  most  of  the 

abattoirs are being closed.  In the name of cleaning river Ganga in Kanpur, small 

leather  factories  are  being  shut  down.    I  do  not  understand  what  the  government 

wants.    The  government  has  to  decide  whether it  supports the leather industry  or 

not.    If  we import  all  the  raw  materials then  it smells  a  conspiracy  to  protect  the 

interests  of  foreign  companies.    Due  to  demonetization,  the  workers  and  small 

scale  industries  engaged  in  manufacturing  of  leather shoes  have  been  thrown  out 

of business.  The foreign footwear companies have a strong foothold in the country 

and the competition has increased.  There are no concrete schemes in this regard.  

What  are  the  steps  being  taken  to  market  leather  products  and  eco-friendly 

footwear  and  spread  awareness  in  this  regard.    Whether  the  government  would 

take  concrete  measures  regarding  Kolhapuri  Juti,  Punjabi  Juti,  Rajasthani  Juti, 

Mojari  Juti  and  Khadau.    Footwear  is  an  unorganized  sector  and  there  are  no 

specific proposals to make it an organized sector.  The Government has not been 

able  to  reopen  Khadi  Gramodyog  in  Bihar  for  the  past  10-15  years.    What 

concessions would be provided to small leather producers and shoe manufacturers 

in rural areas.  Whether Madhubani paintings would be used in the footwear.  The 

Bill provides for a governing council comprising of 15 members and a chairperson 

who  will be an industrialist or a scientist.  I am  of the view it would  be  misused 

and they would have a monopoly in the governing body.  We have to pay attention 

towards  pricing  and  quality  of  our  products.    The  Bill  mentions  about  skill 

development but it is not clear as to how employment would be provided to skilled 

persons.  I feel we need to pay attention on designing as well as comfort.  I would 

request  that  self  help  groups  of  rural  women  should  also  be  associated  with  it  

under skill India.  Training should be as per the quality of the leather.  Even today 

students of all the seven FDDI are protesting as their degree is still not considered 

valid.  What are the safeguards to guarantee that children of poor would also get 

admission in these institutes.  Fees of these institutes should be reduced.  

 

