  Regarding  this  bill  some  concerns 

were  raised  and  some  apprehensions  were  also  expressed.  Somebody  said  that  we 

were  kneeling  before  America  or  China.    I  fail  to  understand  how  by  bringing  a 

Regional  Centre  of  Biotechnology  in  the  country,  which  is  going  to  be  one  of  the 

state-of-the-art things, for the whole of Asia, we are seen as kneeling before America 

or China.  We can tell the hon. Members that we shall be the last people in this world 

to ever kneel before anyone.  This Bill has its origin from the time of our great Prime 

Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee.  He became the Prime Minister of India and you 

know  what  he  did  on  11th  May  1998,  in  spite  of  all  pressures,  for  which  I  think 

anybody  could  have  been  seen  kneeling.    Now,  there  is  another  great  leader,  our 

present  Prime  Minister    who  enjoys  the  legacy  of  that  great  Prime  Minister.    He  is 

committed to promote science in the best possible manner.  That is reflected in all the 

policies  that  he  has  framed  till  now  and  the  various  programmes  which  were 

deliberated in great detail, whether it was the 'Make in India' or the 'Digital India', or 

the 'Swachh Bharat' , etc.  Members have expressed concerns and raised doubts that 

probably this institution is coming up at the cost of other institutions,  and it is going 

to hamper or impair the autonomy of other institutions.  But it is not like that.  It is an 

institution  and  'Regional  Centre'  for  this  region  of  the  world,  that  is,  Asia.    This 

Centre, with the help of UNESCO and the Member-States is going to actually make 

sure that our goal of taking biotechnology is achieved well in time.  One hon. Member 

said  that  the  achievements  of  biotechnology  or  of  our  scientists  in  this  field  in  our 

country  are  literally  zero.    But  I  can  say,  for  sure,  that  we  have  the  state-of-the  Art 

laboratories  in  this  country  in  biotechnology.    Our  molecular  biologists  or  life 

scientists  have  done  the  total  human  genome  sequencing.    This  human  genome 

sequencing required ten years back 100 million dollars.  Now after ten years, the same 

human genome sequencing can be done in thousand dollars.  This is the achievement 

of our scientists.  Cancer is no longer a dreaded disease.  Somebody said that we have 

not done anything in nanotechnology.  But I want to tell that right now our status in 

nanotechnology  internationally  is  that  we  are  the  third  best  in  the  world  in  terms  of 

our  publications  and  our  contributions.    I  can  assure  you  that  the  coming  up  of  this 

institution  is  not  going  to  in  anyway  compromise  the  quality,  the  support  that  the 

Government  of  India gives  to  any  other  institution whether  in  the  Government  or  in 

the private sector or in the industry.  Coming up of this institution will ensure that we 

have a very good quality, state of the art institution which will make sure that we are 

able  to  take  care  of  whatever  is  deficient  anywhere,  we  improve  educaton,  we 

improve  training,  and  we  create  manpower  of  all  types,  all  levels.    Some  concerns 

were also raised about ignoring east or north eastern parts.  But I want to tell that we 

already  have  an  institute  of  biotechnology  in  Kalyani,  West  Bengal.    At  our  lab  in 

Lucknow  along  with  the  Agriculture  Department  of  West  Bengal  we  have 

successfully worked  on  arsenic  free rice  now.    So,  it  is  not  that we  are not  showing 

our  concern  for  the  eastern  or  north-eastern  part  of  India.    We  also  have  a  very 

important major agricultural programme in the East and the North-East.  There is an 

initiative  which  is  known  as  the  Institute  of  Bio-Resources  and  Sustainable 

Development at Imphal.  Something was mentioned about BT cotton and BT brinjal.  

Let me tell the factual position about these issues.  BT cotton is the only genetically 

engineered crop which India has approved so far for commercial cultivation in 2002 

when  Atalji  was  the  Prime  Minister.    So  far,  India  has  approved  six  events  of  BT 

cotton.    At  present,  India  is  the  number  one  cotton  producing  country  in  the  world 

surpassing even the USA and China.  Now let me tell about BT brinjal.  After several 

years of bio-safety testing, the Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee has cleared 

the BT brinjal for commercialization in 2009.  There was a concern raised a member 

about the biotechnology regulatory Bill.  I can tell you that we are  going to bring that 

regulatory  Bill.    Moreover,  we  are  not  compromising  on  any  of  the  regulatory 

mechanisms  even  without  the  Bill  right  now.    Some  issue  was  raised  about  the 

majority voting right, about the Indian members, and all.  The majority voting rights 

in  the  Board of  Governors  is with  the Indian  members.    somebody  mentioned  about 

the  economic  benefits  to  the  country.    The  Centre  is  expected  to  produce  highly 

trained  and  skilled  manpower  capable  of  delivering  low-cost,  effective  healthcare, 

agricultural  and  veterinary  technologies.    Somebody  mentioned  about  industry 

collaboration, etc.  I can tell you that one of the mandates is education will be linked 

with industry requirements.  The foreign faculty, etc. are going  to be involved in this.  

There  was  a  suggestion  given  that  the  review  should  be  every  two  years.    We  can 

actively consider that.  A member asked about UNESCO.  UNESCO is not going to 

provide us any fund per se but the member States will be giving contributions.  There 

was  a  mention  about  the  generic  medicines.    We  are  a  leader  in  generic  medicines.  

There cannot be two opinions about it but with regard to the benefits of these generic 

medicines, we have to cover a long way to make sure that we make generic medicines 

available to each and every person in this country.   

The Bill was passed. 

 

** 

 

 

       ** 

 

 

      **  

                        ** 

 

 

