  I  express  my  utter  disappointment 

about the direction in which this Government intends to take or has started taking 

this  country.    People  ask  as  to  why  when  the  prices  of  petroleum  products  are 

falling drastically in the Arab countries, it is not happening in our country.  Let us 

allow the poor Indian to build up some reserves in their families with which they 

can survive the vagaries of economic ups and downs that the whole world is seeing 

today.    Very  surreptitiously  this  Government  has  taken  upon  itself  the  task  of 

imposing  Income  Tax  on  agriculture.    Hardworking  farmers  earn  some  money 

through  house  rent  or  by  having  a  taxi.    That  makes  some  income  which  is  now 

being clubbed as 'income from other sources'.  Just because 40,000-50,000 farmers 

are cheating on income tax, let us not punish the two to three crores of farmers who 

are genuine toilers, who are not rich and who are working for survival.  The second 

point  is  'Political  funding  through  electoral  bonds'.    Finance  Minister  also  in  his 

budget speech mentioned that political parties reportedly get about 70 per cent of 

donations  through  cash  and  a  mere  30  per  cent  through  cheques.   So,  this  30  per 

cent was what was taxable.  Now, they will be allowed to buy electoral bonds and 

that  too  incognito-  secretly.    They  are  helping  them  hide  that  little  amount  also.  

All of us know how the FCRA rules had been changed in the last 2015-16 Finance 

Bill.    Now  that  shows  that  foreign  funding  can  come  to  political  parties  in  India 

very,  very  secretively  and  in  that  process,  you  are  allowing    people,  foreign 

companies, to lobby here.  You should legalize this lobbying or make it in such a 

manner  that  people  can  pay  up  in  white  and  that  should  be  acceptable.    The 

draconian  search  and  seizure  provision  in  the  income  tax  is  my  next  point.    In 

clause 50 of this Bill, the Government has proposed a curious amendment to allow 

IT officials not to disclose their reasons for conducting search and seizure. Finally, 

my  last  point  is  that  the  NPA  problem  is  getting  worse.    This  year's  Economic 

Survey points out that bad loans have doubled since last year.  Again I would like 

to ask that how can the economy grow when the bank lending growth has declined 

to a 60 year low of a mere five per cent?  That is a 60 year low.  We are in a partial 

state of recession.  Since there are reports of massive job cuts across sectors - from 

IT, Real Estate and everywhere - if the Government claims that the seven per cent 

figure is true, it has to be living in denial, it is not accepting the reality.   

 

