 After the passage of Goods and Service Tax a very big 

economic  revolution  would  happen  in  the  country  from  1st  July,  2017.    The 

Government is bringing GST as it would lead to simplification of indirect taxes 

and there would also be uniformity.  Tax base should be widened in India.  All 

GST  transactions  would  be  online  leading  to  higher  tax  base.    Our  economy 

would boost which would benefit the poor.  Indirect Central Taxes and various 

taxes  of  the  state  governments  would  be  merged,  leading  to  reduction  in 

inflation,  and  higher  compliance  as  well  as  investment  would  also  increase.  

Had the provision of compensation been included earlier then GST would have 

been implemented long back.  GST Council will work in consultation with the 

State  governments  and  central  government  board.    Another  benefit  of  GST  is 

one nation one tax.  It has been seen in several countries that wherever GST was 

adopted,  GDP  of  the  countries  showed  double  digit  growth.    When  all  GST 

transactions are online, revenue would get a boost.  If tax evasion is prevented 

country can grow much more.  GST would lead to transparency.  For Make in 

India,  this  will  be  a  boost.    Above  all,  goods  would  become  cheaper.    It  is  a 

blessing  for  backward  states  without  manufacturing  base.    GST  would  lead  to 

all round industrial development or market economy.  It is being said that it is a 

draconian  bill  and  it  will  being  back  inspector  raj.    But  the  fact  is  that  GST 

would be online and there would be no human intervention at all.  GST is a step 

towards corruption free India.  If we do not differentiate between the rates of a 

luxury  item  and  that  of  vegetables  or  milk  then  it  would  be  difficult.    The 

founding  fathers  of  our  Constitution  wanted  a  boundary-less  India  having  free 

trade and uniform prices giving equal opportunities to all states.  A member of 

Opposition termed the Bill as assault on federalism.  I do not think there is any 

substance in it because states have already agreed to it.  At the initial stage any 

nation can face certain difficulties.  Demonetization and GST will check black 

money.    That  will  control  black  money  in  real  estate  also.    This  is  the  most 

important Bill so far brought in the sphere of economic sector.  

 

