 The demand for granting 

constitutional  status  to  National  Commission  for  Backward  Classes  was  being 

raised in the interest of backward classes for ling time. I am glad that my Ministry 

has introduced this Bill under the guidance of the hon'ble Prime Minister. All the 

                                                           
* Original in Marathi. 

hon'ble  Members  have  supported  for  granting  of  constitutional  status  to  this 

Commission. It shows that this Government has done a historic work by fulfilling 

this long pending demand. The Commission has been vested with powers to make 

recommendations  to  the  Government  of  India  and  the  State  Governments  for  the 

development  of  OBC  classes.  The  Commission  can  make  recommendations  for 

progress of other backward classes and for their development on the line of SC and 

ST  Commission.  The  Commission  would  consist  of  five  members  including 

Chairperson  and  Vice-Chairperson.  Some  hon'ble  Members  have  expressed 

apprehension  that  it  would  take  away  the  power  of  setting  up  Commission  for 

Backward  Classes  from  the  states  and  the  power  of  state  OBC  Commission  for 

inclusion  and  exclusion  of  castes  in  the  OBC  list.  I  assure  that  there  is  no  such 

provision  in  this  Bill  which  would  breach  those  powers  or  wind  up  those  OBC 

Commissions. Moreover, we are inserting one new clause 342(A) in Section 4. The 

hon'ble Members have some apprehensions regarding the wordings of that clause. 

We  would  not  do  anything  against  the  wishes  and  aspirations  of  the  state 

governments which affects the federal structure. I would like to clarify it again that 

the  Governor  acts  in  accordance  with  the  advice  given  by  that  state  government. 

The  Governor  forwards  the  advice  given  by  the  State  Government.  We  are  not 

making  even  partial  interference  in  the  power  of  the  State  Government.  The 

Governor would make consultations with the State Government and we take action 

only  on  the  basis  of  the  report  given  after  such  consultations.  There  are  similar 

provisions  in  the  National  Commission  for  Scheduled  Castes  and  National 

Commission  for  Scheduled  Tribes.  There  is  no  difference  in  the  wordings  of  this 

Bill and provisions contained in those SC and ST Commissions. Besides, we have 

inserted  a  new  clause  26(C)  in  the  definitions  under  Article  366  to  ensure  no 

exclusion  or  inclusion  or  manipulation  in  the  list  of  castes. The  castes  enlisted  at 

present  alongwith  the  background  as  given  in  the  Mandal  Commission  would  be 

recorded there and all the future  deliberations  would be made only on that basis. 

So far as the question of list of OBCs in the states is concerned, it falls under the 

jurisdiction  of  State  Commission  and  State  Government.  There  would  be  no 

interference  of  the  Central  Government  and  we  do  not  intend  to  interfere  in  this 

matter. Some hon'ble Member has asked whether we would provide reservation to 

Muslims under OBC classes? Several states have included some Muslim castes in 

the  OBC  list.  We  would  not  interfere  in  the  provisions  that  already  exist.  With 

these  submissions  I  would  request  the  House  to  pass  this  historic  Constitution 

Amendment Bill.  

The Bill, as amended, was passed. 

 

 

