  This  is  a  very  important  subject.    I  do  not  find  the 

Financial memorandum and the Statement of Objects and Reasons in the Bill.  The 

hon.  Supreme  Court  of  India  has  directed  the  Central  Government  to  give  ART 

medicine to all HIV victims.  The Government has said that the ART medicine for 

each patient would cost around Rs.28,500.  If we cannot give that much of amount 

for the victim of HIV, how can we cure the patients in this country?  We have seen 

50  per  cent  reduction  in  the  number  of  new  HIV  infection.    The  total  estimated 

HIV affected persons in our country are 2.08 million as per a report of 2011.  What 

steps have been taken in our country to manufacturer generic antiretroviral drug in 

our country?  It is a good Bill.  HIV is very much influencing our population.  It is 

also  influencing  our  GDP  and  economy.  This  Bill  aims  to  end  this  epidemic  by 

2030.    This  Bill  has  been  drafted  to  safeguard  the  rights  of  the  people  who  are 

affected by HIV.  In my State of Kerala, we have seen that the rehabilitation of an 

HIV affected person is very difficult.  The education of the HIV-affected persons 

and their children is very much difficult in schools. The Bill also aims to enhance 

access  to  health  care  services  by  ensuring  consent  and  confidentiality  for  HIV 

related testing treatment and other clinical results.  I think not only the Government 

but the entire nation should be involved in awareness programmes.  Then only we 

can create a situation for the betterment of HIV-AIDS affected persons.  The State 

and Central Government should ensure prevention of spread of HIV and AIDS and 

anti-retroviral and access to welfare schemes, especially for women and children.  

The HIV patients are not getting proper medical treatment in our hospitals. This is 

something  very  alarming.  I  think,  Government  should  come  out  with  some 

financial  support  to  the  States  to  ensure  protection  of  the  HIV  patients  and  their 

rehabilitation and treatment in their respective states.   

 

