 The issue of price rise should get the 

priority  over  all  other  issues  because  it  is  affecting  more  than  80  pe  cent  of  our 

population.  I am not doubting the efforts of this government, but somehow or the 

other, this government is unable to take any action to rein in inflation.  Food prices 

have  increased  to  7.9  per  cent  in  May,  2016  as  against  4.23  per  cent  in  April.  

Inflation  has  not  a  short-term  impact.    It  will  impact  on  our  employment, 

investment,  manufacture  and  our  economy.    Economic  situation,  investment  and 

employment  will  improve  only  if  banks  extend  credit  and  there  is  investment.  

Consecutively,  the  Congress  led  government  and  the  BJP  led  government  are 

unable to control inflation.  Inflation is a key issues which needs to be tackled.  It 

seems that the government does not have a clue as to what really needs to be done 

to rein in the prices.  Instead of focusing on  tackling the supply side glitches that 

are  chiefly  behind  the  price  spike,    The  government  is  holding  the  traders 

responsible.    According  to  the  Standing  Committee  on  Finance,  the  information 

flow  is  not  before  him,  and  he  has  to  seek  information  from  different  Ministries 

and has to compile it, then there will be very time to fight against the price rise and 

inflation.    Moreover,  the  presence  of  multiple  agencies  in  handling  various  issue 

concerning  inflation and  price  rise  reduced  the  Department of Consumers  Affairs 

to a mere data collecting and compiling organization.  The present Government has 

been in power for the last two years and some months, but what specific steps has 

it  taken  to  control  inflation  and  price-rise  than  sending  advisories  to  respective 

State  Governments?    The  Government's  latest  move  to  take  on  lease  farmlands 

abroad,  mostly  in  African  countries  to  grow  pulses  and  bring  them  to  India  is  an 

innovative idea no doubt.  But I think it needs to come to a logical conclusion.  I 

would only say that the Government has miserably failed to provide any relief to 

the common man.  The Union Government has completely failed to control rising 

prices  of  essential  commodities  particularly  of  pulses.    Here  I  would  also  like  to 

mention that there is a need for more budget allocation for Price Stabilization Fund 

to  check  prices  of  essential  commodities.    Incentives  for  pulses  production  will 

help farmers and consumers both.  

 

