 First of all, I would like to 

start with the problems of Andhra Pradesh.  However, the Government has shown 

full  commitment  and  support  to  the  State  of  Andhra  Pradesh.    And  there  will  be 

100  per  cent  funding  for  the  Polavaram  project.    There  will  also  be  special 

assistance measure for Andhra Pradesh by way of repayment of loan and interest of 

externally  added  projects  signed  between  2015-16  to  2019-20.    According  to  the 

special package, Andhra Pradesh will get the benefit of this 30 per cent.  But what 

I  want  to  bring  to  the  notice  of  the  Central  Government  is  that  according  to  the 

special  status,  certain  benefit  is  also  supposed  to  be  in  the  ratio  of  90:10.    In  the 

Budget  the  government  granted  capital  gains  tax  exemption  to  the  farmers  for  a 

period of two years.  We request that the capital gains tax exemption be granted for 

the first sale without any time limit.  There is another issue which is regarding the 

FRBM  limit  for  the  State  of  Andhra  Pradesh.    The  FRBM  limit  for  the  State  of 

Andhra Pradesh therefore has to be enhanced to 3.5 per cent.  It is a long pending 

request.  Coming to demonetisation, we are now promoting cashless economy and 

digital  economy.    But  maximum  benefit  is  accruing  to  the  banks  rather  than  the 

common man.  The transaction charges which are being levied by the banks have 

to be curtailed.  According to GST, there is one constraint from the State of Andhra 

Pradesh, which is the off shore oil and gas reserves.  We want that even where the 

oil  and  gas  reserves  are  sitting  off  shore  royalty  should  be  paid  to  the  landing 

States also.  I would also request to look after our demand and fulfil the request of 

building a world class Capital in the State of Andhra Pradesh.  With regard to tax 

incentives, we request that other than the seven districts, out of the 13 districts, the 

district of Prakasham also be added to the list of backward districts.  I would also 

like to  raise two important  issues.  We  should  give  the  confidence to the  farmers 

saying  that  this  House  is  committed  to  their  benefits.    So,  there  should  be 

Agriculture  Budget  every  year  separately.    Central  Government  need  to  take 

certain measures so that NRIs prefer India, come back and help in the growth and 

development of this country.   

 

