  

The  Collection  of  the  Statistics  Act,  2008,  as  of  now,  has  been  extended  to  the 

whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.  Similarly, the Jammu and 

Kashmir Collection of Statistics Act, 2010, applies only to the State of Jammu and 

Kashmir.  There are certain areas which are neither covered under the Concurrent 

List not under the List-I.  Therefore, there is a need of an Act to cover those areas.  

Under  such  circumstances,  in  the  larger  interest  of  the  people  of  Jammu  and 

Kashmir and getting a real-time data, this has been extended to the State of Jammu 

and  Kashmir.    It  will  certainly  not  violate  Article  370  of  the  Constitution.    Two 

important  issues  have  been  raised.  One  issue  raised  was  whether  all  the 

stakeholders have been taken on board. The Bill at the initial stage was put in the 

public  domain.  For  three  months,  we  received  suggestions.    Subsequently,  it  was 

circulated  among  the  Ministries  and  other  Departments.    Before  we  decided  to 

introduce the Bill in the House, a Cabinet Note containing the amendment proposal 

was sent to the Government of Jammu and Kashmir.  No reply has come from the 

Legislature  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir.    So,  we  are  forced  to  do  this.    One  of  the 

important issues that have been raised is with regard to amendment to Section 9(1), 

that is, whether right to privacy is protected in respect of data collection. I would 

like  to  place  on  record  that  the  guidelines,  that  is,  the  Fundamental  Principles  of 

Official Statistics of United Nations need to be followed as far as collection of data 

and  other  things  are  concerned.    Another  important  issue  that  has  been  raised  is 

with regard to how the secrecy will be maintained.  There are stringent provisions 

on restriction given under the Act on data collection and that no person other than a 

person  engaged  in  the  work  of  data  collection  shall  be  permitted  to  see  any 

information  collected.  The  rules  made  under  the  Act  also  provide  adequate 

safeguards.  Further, amendment to Section 9(1) does not give any arbitrary power 

to  the  Government.  There  are  several  suggestions  given  by  my  hon.  Members.  

Certainly,  all  the  suggestions  are  well  taken.    A  suggestion  was  made  to 

incorporate the provision that they should be a timeframe for furnishing the data or 

statistics  and  it  has  to  be  made  binding  on  all.  Fixing  a  timeframe  is  a  survey 

specific.    It  cannot  be  fixed  that  this  survey  should  be  completed  within  such  a 

period.    There  were  suggestions  about  NSSO's  surveys  also,  particularly, 

periodicity.  It was suggested that the survey on employment, unemployment may 

be  more  frequent.  I  would  like  to  inform  that  the  NSSO  has  been  conducting 

surveys on many subjects from time to time and I am proud to inform this august 

House that the Government has decided to launch periodic labour survey in 2017-

18 to measure the employment and unemployment characteristics at every quarter.  

So,  we  will  have  quarterly  employment  data  as  soon  as  the  survey  methodology 

stabilizes. There should be close coordination between the State and the Centre.  It 

is  necessary  to  get  the  real  time  data.    Certainly,  it  will  strengthen  the  data 

collection  mechanism.    So,  I  appeal  to  the  hon.  Members  that  the  Bill  may  be 

passed by this august House.  

The Bill was passed. 

