 I would like the hon. Minister to consider a few 

suggestions.    Firstly,  the  two  Members  to  be  appointed  by  the  Government,  the 

Central Government and one of the State Government.  Amongst these members, 

the Government may please ensure that they are from academic background with 

academic  excellence.    These  are  supposed  to  be  institutions  of  educational 

excellence.  They should have extension centers in rural areas and backward areas 

and isolated areas, otherwise excellence will remain confined to a few urban areas 

and a few rich people.  The medium of instruction in those institutes is English.  A 

large  section  of  our  population  does  not  understand  English.    Therefore,  the 

children should be taught in their own mother tongue.  I, request the hon. Minister 

to  kindly  take  this  aspect  also  in  view.    The  Board  itself  would  appoint  its  own 

chairperson.  This is a good thing but who will appoint the Board, this thing should 

be clear.  There will be 19 members in the Board out of which one member each 

will be appointed by the Central Government and State Government.  But who will 

appoint  the  remaining  19  members  this  should  also  be  made  clear  in  the  Bill.  

There is provision in the Bill that relates to appointment of teaching faculty.  The 

faculty  plays  an  important  role  in  technical  institutes.    Therefore,  the  people 

belonging to weaker sections like minorities and people of rural areas should also 

given  proper  representation  in  it.    So,  there  should  be  reservation  in  'Board  of 

Governors' and teaching faculty as per the government policy, otherwise, the very 

intent  of  the  Bill  would  be  defeated.    The  fee  in  these  IIMs  is  very  high  so  the 

government should give 100 per cent exemption in fees for the students belonging 

to BPL families and weaker sections.  The government should bear the burden of 

their fees only then there would be justice with the talented students of rural areas.  

Similarly, the students belonging to poor families and deprived sections of society 

and of rural areas should be given reservation at the time of campus placement in 

these institutes. 

 

