  This  historic  Bill,  like  many 

other  important  Bills  was  originally  brought  by  the  UPA  Government.    At  that 

time, like those  Bills  and  AADHAR, this  Bill  was  also  opposed  by  the  Members 

now in Treasury Benches.  Some crucial provisions of the original Bill have been 

omitted by the NDA Government.  That is why, there is a demand from the Rajya 

Sabha for referring it to the Select Committee.  To build a home is the dream of the 

people especially the poor people.  We know that there are a lot of faulty practices 

and  cheating  in  real  estate  sector  so  I  welcome  this  Bill.    The  Bill  says  that  all 

States and Union Territories must establish State level regulatory authorities.  The 

Bill also proposes to constitute Real Estate Appellate Tribunal.  The tribunal may 

also  refer  the  case to  the  Competition  Commission.   A  Central  Advisory  Council 

consisting  of  representatives  from  the  Union  Ministry,  State  Governments, 

representatives of the Real Estate Regulatory Authorities, consumers and labourers 

will be established to advise the Central Government on major questions of policy 

and protection of consumer interest.  One of the important provisions in this Bill is 

that 70 per  cent of the  amount  collected  from  the buyers should be used  only  for 

construction.    Then,  the  Bill  requires  that  all  residential  projects  with  some 

exception  be  registered.    Registration  is  not  required  for  projects  which  are  less 

than  500  sq.  meters  or  entail  the  construction  of  less  than  eight  apartments.    I 

would  suggest  that  requirement  of  registration  should  be  avoided  and  the  Rajya 

Sabha Select Committee have also given that suggestion to you.  Real estate agents 

must  also  register  themselves.    There  are  certain  inconsistencies  in  the  Bill.  

Several States have already enacted or are in the process of enacting laws that have 

provisions  that  are  inconsistent  with  the  Bill.    According  to  the  provisions  of  the 

Bill,  the  penalty  for  the  consumer  is  higher  and  the  penalty  for  the  developer  is 

less. Developers have to pay only two or three per cent in case of default but the 

consumers pay 16 to 18 per cent of interest for their default.  This is also against 

the suggestion made by the Select Committee.  It should be rectified.  I appreciate 

the Minister's wisdom that he has provided that 70 per cent of the amount collected 

from  the  buyer  should  be  deposited  in  a  separate  account.    There  is  provision  of 

even  imprisonment  for  the  realtors  if  they  fail  to  abide  by  the  orders  by  the 

Appellate Tribunal.  The term 'allottee' should be redefined to include 'the person 

agreed to be sold'.  The Bill has already been delayed.  Now, we all expect its early 

passage.  

 

