  

The  Right  to  Education  Bill  was  introduced  in  the  year  2009  and  it  was 

implemented  in  2010.    In  the  year  2010,  this  was  a  programme  for  expansion  of 

education  in  a  way.   First, under  Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan  and later under  Right  to 

Education, new schools were set up at several places.  But teachers with B. El. Ed. 

or D. El. Ed. degrees were not available for the schools.  As such, teachers having 

graduate  or  12th  standard  degree  were  recruited  for  primary  schools.    However, 

they were required to be trained.  They were unqualified, so they were given a time 

frame  of  five  years  to  get  trained.    Around  lakhs  of  teachers  were  trained  during 

these  five  years  acquiring  B.  El.  Ed.  and  D.  El.  Ed.  degrees,  however,  the 

expansion in this regard continued.  As of now, more than 5.50 lakh, around 6 lakh 

private  school  teachers  and  about  2.5  lakh  government  school  teachers  have  not 

done B. El. Ed. or D. El. Ed. They are in a way unqualified, but some of them have 

been teaching for the last 8-10 years. This Bill has been brought to give them a last 

opportunity  to  qualify  the  exam.  by  March  2019.    Now  a  new  facility  has  been 

brought  through  technology.    The  Government  of  India  has  brought  a  new  portal 

'Swayam' and  it is envisaged to  provide courses to  all on this  portal  as they  have 

been  teaching  in  schools.    They  do  not  need  to  go  to  any  other  place  to  take 

lessons.  They are taking lessons and are having practical experience, but they also 

need to acquire the theoretical knowledge.  Therefore, they have to get themselves 

registered  in  the  coming  August.    We  would  like  to  convey  to  all  the  8.5  lakh 

teachers  that  this  would  be  the  last  opportunity  for  them,  so  they  should  get 

themselves registered, otherwise their jobs will be at stake.  After registration, they 

will get online study material in the 'Swayam' portal and they can study from their 

homes  also  by  watching  the  DTH  channel.    Additionally,  the  State  Governments 

will  provide  a  twelve  day  training  programme  every  year  during  this  period  to 

ensure  hands  on,  face  to  face  education  to  them.    This  'Swayam'  portal  has  been 

launched by  the hon.  President last  week only.   Various  types of 400 courses  are 

being  conducted  on  it  as  of  now  and  more  than  one  lakh  students  have  been 

registered for studies.  These eight and a half lakh people will get very good study 

material  on  daily  basis.    Through  the  free  DTH  channel  of  Doordarshan,  32 

educational channels will be available to the teacher forever.  Education imparted 

by  the  unqualified  teachers  is  damaging.   Teachers  need  to  be  qualified.    We  are 

taking  forward  the objective  of  Right  to Education. This  will  ensure education  to 

all , training and qualification to all.  

 

