    I  felt  that  the  hon.  Finance  Minister  should 

clarify  two  things  in  the  Bill.  Firstly,  the  success  of  the  GST  system  is  largely 

dependent  on  the  width  of  its  coverage.  But  the  proposed  GST  regime  has 

excluded  many  items  such  as  potable  alcohol,  tobacco  and  petroleum  products 

which account for a large chunk of indirect tax base in the country. Secondly, the 

one  per  cent  extra levy  has  been  proposed  to  be  charged  when  goods  move  from 

one State to another. Every time goods move from one State to another and the tax 

will  go  on  increasing,  it  will  have  a  cascading  effect  on  the  cost  in  the  supply 

chain.  Sir,  I  have  given  three  amendments  which  are  in  the  interest  of  the  Union 

Territory of Puducherry. Our Puducherry unit of the party had studied the Bill and 

had given some suggestions. They are thankful about the fact that the Government 

has  accepted  their  suggestion  to  insert  a  new  article  366  (26b)  in  the  definition 

clause for State which includes a Union Territory with Legislature with reference 

to article 246 (a), 268, 269 (a) 279 (a). The provision of the current Bill does not 

pave  way  for  devolution  of  Union  revenue  constitutionally  under  article  275  and 

280,  that  is  through  Central  Finance  Commission.  So  my  amendment  is  with 

regard to the inclusion of article 270, 275 and 280 in the definition of State for the 

purpose  of  devolution  of  revenue  from  Central  pool.  Secondly,  article  279  (a) 

clause 4 (g) provides for Goods and Services Council to make recommendations to 

the  Union  and  the  States  on  special  provisions  with  respect  to  certain  States.  My 

amendment to this sub-clause (g) is to include Puducherry in the list of States and 

UTs.  The  Legislature  of  Puducherry  has  been  consistently  demanding  Statehood 

and  special  status  for  a  long  time.  Hence,  Puducherry  should  be  included  in  the 

special  provision  States.  Thirdly,  Section  18(2)  of  the  Bill  excludes  Union 

Territory with Legislature from the share of one per cent additional tax on supply 

of  goods  for  two  years  or  such  other  period  recommended  by  the  GST  Council. 

Puducherry  UT's  revenue  should  be  protected  in  the  transition  period  from  VAT 

regime to GST regime. Hence, my amendment to Section 18(2) to insert the words 

'without Legislature' along with Union Territories.  

 

