 The Constitution 

(One  Hundredth  Amendment)  Bill  was  passed  and  it  was  wholeheartedly 

appreciated by each and everyone.  The spirit and intent of that Bill was very clear 

and  it  was  appreciated  by  all,  cutting  across  the  party  lines.    Consequent  to  that 

enactment  of  that  Act  in  2015,  all  the  14,864  persons,  living  in  51  erstwhile 

Bangladesh enclaves, amalgamated to the Indian Territory opted to acquire Indian 

citizenship.  With a view to providing voting rights to those opted to acquire Indian 

citizenship,  they  have  to  be  enrolled  into  the  electoral  roll  of  the  respective 

Assembly  and  Parliamentary  constituencies  in  order  to  facilitate  updation  of  the 

said  electoral  rolls.    The  proposed  Bill  seeks  to  amend  Section  11  of  the 

Delimitation  Act  2002  and  Section  9  of  the  Representation  of  the  People  Act 

empowering  the  Election  Commission  to carry  out the  limited delimitation of the 

affected constituencies.   

 

SHRI  ADHIR  RANJAN  CHOWDHURY 

initiating  said:  As  a 

consequence  of  the  historic  pact  between  India  and  Bangladesh,  it  was  an 

imperative need for this Government to make these kinds of amendments in order 

to  facilitate  the  voting  rights  of  those  enclave  people.    I  would  like  to  draw  the 

attention of the hon. Law Minister that 14000 of 51 former Bangladesi enclaves in 

India  and  another  979  from  former  Indian  enclaves  in  the  neighbouring  country 

became  Indian  citizens  in  August  last  year  but  they  are  yet  to  be  recognized  as 

voters.  That is why this amendment needs to be introduced.  Election Commission 

has  started  the  electoral  process.    The  time  is  too  short.    I  would  like  to  know 

whether it will be possible for the administration to organize this kind of exercise 

so as to ensure the eligible voters to vote in this impending election.  The people 

who have become  Indian  citizens  after the  exchange of  the enclaves  are living in 

very pathetic condition.  There is a need to make adequate arrangements for their 

rehabilitation.   

 

