  According to the 1981 census, there were 1.4 

Crore child labourers in the country.  And as per the Census of the year 2001, there 

were 1.27 Crore child labourers in the country.  Even though the government takes 

every possible step to save the children from the evil effect of child labour besides 

providing  them  education  and  daily  food,  the  number  of  child  labourers  in  the 

country  are  on  the  rise  due  to  poverty,  population  explosion  and  problem  of 

                                                                 
* Original in Tamil. 

unemployment.    These  child  labourers  are  forced  to  work  in  roadside  eateries, 

brick  kilns,  stone  crushing  quarries,  motorcycle  repairing  shops,  hotels,  small 

industrial units, shops selling sweets, meat shops, tea shops, etc.  These child work 

force contribute around 20 per cent to the Gross Domestic Product.  With a view to 

completely eradicate child labour and poverty, the Tamil Nadu Government takes 

all  effective  measures  to  ensure  that  the  parents  of  such  children  get  rid  of  their 

financial  burden.    Education,  notebooks,  textbooks,  education  aids,  school  bags, 

shoes,  bicycles,  laptops,  etc.  are  all  provided  free  of  cost  to  all  the  children  in 

Tamil Nadu.  Child labour has to be prevented at any cost.  We need stringent laws 

to  address  and prevent issues  like  child labour  and  children  being  to  subjected  to 

sexual  exploitation.    There  should  be  a  proper  mechanism  for  providing 

rehabilitation to these children, as well.  

 

DR. RATNA DE (NAG): Child labour is a global issue. Enforcement alone 

cannot help to solve it. Child labour can be stopped when knowledge is translated 

into  legislation  and  action,  moving  good  intentions  and  ideas  for  protecting  the 

children's health. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which India has 

not  ratified  yet,  fixes  the  minimum  age  of  employment  at  18  years.  We  cannot 

leave  our  children  for  exploitation  under  any  circumstances  and  for  whatsoever 

reasons.  

 

