  This  idea  of  GST  will  be  a  game-

changer,  making  the  whole  country  one  market.    It  would  help  not  only    the 

traders, it will also help the consumers to a great extent.  In this new Bill, there are 

certain  areas  that vitiate  the  principles  of GST.   For  example  in  Clause  18  of  the 

Bill  one  per  cent  on  the  supply  of  goods  in  the  course  of  inter-State  trade  or 

commerce  has  been  prepared.    When  already  the  loss  for  the  States  has  been 

compensated, then why do  you have a  one per cent more?  Initial proposal to set 

the  GST  is  at  27  per  cent  which    is  indeed  very  disconcerting.    A  high  GST  rate 

will  be  unviable  for  the  economy  that  would  lead  to  a  significant  inflationary 

pressures.   There are four issues which need to be addressed.  First is relating to 

the  CST  compensation.    The  commitment  which  was  given  by  the  previous 

Government was not kept.  Odisha is suffering from loss on account of reduction in 

CST rate.  Now, the Government has brought it into the Bill to make it legal.  Why 

does the Government not start the release of money?  It would infuse confidence.  

My  second  point  is  about  the  Green  Tax.    Under  GST,  the  Destination  Principle 

applies  and  the  mineral  producing  States  where  pollution  is  localized  do  not  get 

any part of the revenue.  It is only the consuming States that gets the tax revenue, 

whereas  the  pollution  is  suffered  by  the  citizens  of  the  producing  States.    I  have 

proposed  for  the  levy  of  an  additional  non-rebatable  cess  subject  to  suitable 

framing of guidelines.  I would like to suggest that there should be a new entry in 

the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.  This would go a long way in mitigating 

the  problem  the  mineral  bearing  states  would  have  to  bear  because  of  pollution.  

Thus,  the  mineral  rich  State  may  impose  Green  Tax  outside  GST  on  despatch  of 

minerals.    It  would  be  put  in  the  Bill  so  that  it  becomes  a  national  Act  and  it 

becomes binding on others.  Tobacco and tobacco products should be included in 

entry of the State List so as to enable the States to levy higher rate of tax on it.  The 

fourth  Point  is  the  decision  of  the  GST  Council.    The  Union  Government  should 

have weightage of one-fourth of the total votes cast and all the States should have 

weightage  of  three-fourths  of  the  votes  cast  and  the  decision  should  be  taken  by 

three-fourths  majority.    So  that  the  possibility  of  the  Union  Government  vetoing 

the decision of the states which under the present structure, is a possibility  and be 

ruled out.  For minerals despatched companies these branches outside the state, not 

CST is collected.  It should be bought into GST fold.  

 

