 

that this Bill has been passed with full consensus in the Rajya Sabha. If the same 

spirit  of    consensus  is  displayed  in  the  Lok  Sabha  then  Bangladesh  would  get  a 

positive  message.  This  may  perhaps  be  the  first  instance  where  a  political 

discussion  accompanied  some  stirring  melodies.  Some  Members  of  Parliament 

have raised certain questions, some have expressed concerns and some have given 

suggestions. All these suggestions would be implemented by the state governments 

but funds are required for doing so. We have provided  funds to the West Bengal 

government.  The  question  of  Kachchativu  was  raised.  The  Supreme  Court  had 

given  a  ruling  regarding  Berubari  in  which  it  was  set  -down  that  constitutional 

amendment is required for transfer of any land area from India to another country. 

This had happened in the case of Kachchativu. I would like to inform you that this 

matter is sub-judice and I cannot comment on a sub-judice matter. But I have noted 

it.  The  matter  of  illegal  infiltration  was  also  raised.  88  percent  of  land  has  been 

fenced  and  fencing  in  the  remaining  area  would  be  done  and  infiltration  will  be 

checked  after  land  boundary  is  demarcated.  As  far  as  maritime  boundary  is 

concerned,  I would like to inform the House that the issue of maritime boundary 

was  settled  with  Bangladesh  on  07  July,  2014.  The  issue  of  rivers  and  river 

disputes  is  still  under  discussion.  As  regards  the  allegation  of  having  a  big 

brotherly  attitude,  India  does  not  play  the  role  of  a    big  brother  but  of  an  elder 

brother  with  all its neighbours,   which is the  culture of  our country. In  the end, I 

would  only  like  to  say  that  if  this  Bill  is  passed  here  in  the  same  way  as  it  was 

passed  in  the  Rajya  Sabha,  with  complete  consensus,  it  would  send  a  positive 

message, not only to Bangladesh but to the entire world  that there is no political 

dissent in our country over such issues and all parties think only about the nation 

and take all decisions keeping in mind  the national interest. 

The Bill, as amended, was passed 

 

