  As  far  as  energy  is  concerned,  all  over  the 

world  with  regard  to  hydrocarbons  and  shell  gas,  there  are  issues  coming  out 

presently  in  the  energy  sector.    We  have  found  that  we  fail  in  many  of  the  wells 

that are dug for shell gas.  This institute will give us some directive and guidance 

in that  regard  as  it  is  a  research institute.   I  feel that  there  will  be  more  stress  on 

research  work  in  the  institute.    When  the  shell  gas  production  started  throughout 

the world, the risk came down and the petroleum industry are shattered a bit.  The 

petrol companies faced losses because they had purchased the crude oil at a higher 

price.    The  next  most  important  thing  of  the  institute  is  its  curriculum.  When  we 

form  an  institute  of  national  importance.    The  curriculum  should  be  of  a  global 

standard.    We  should  have  a  faculty  staff  who  is  well  versed  with  the  latest 

technological changes to impart education of a very high quality to our students.  I 

feel  that  Mumbai,  particularly  the  coastal  belt  of  Mumbai  is  also  an  appropriate 

place for such an institute.  Therefore, I request the Government to think of setting 

up of an institute of national importance in Mumbai also.  

 

SHRI  MUTHAMSETTI  SRINIVASA  RAO  (AVANTHI):  I  convey  my 

sincere  thanks  to  our  Chief  Minister  for  granting  200  acres  of  land,  the  cost  of 

which  comes  to  more  than  Rs.400  crore.    In  accordance  with  13th  Schedule  of 

Andhra  Pradesh  Reorganization  Act,  2014,  the  Indian  Institute  of  petroleum  and 

Energy  has  been  set  up.  The  institute  will  provide  high  quality  education  and 

conduct advance research in all aspects relating to the conventional hydrocarbons.  

In this connection, I want to make some suggestions for the kind consideration of 

the  hon.  Minister,  while  appointing  the  non-gazetted  staff,  he  should  give 

instructions to the institute to recruit local people instead of recruiting people from 

outside the State.  I suggest to the hon. Minister to release funds smoothly so that 

the  construction  of  the  institute  takes  place  at  a  fast  pace.    I  would  also  like  to 

request the hon. Minister to start an incubation centre on par with the institution so 

that the creative or innovative minds of the youth of this country  may be utilized 

for  the  development  of  this  country.    Moreover,  we  have  to  give  training  to  the 

present students  to  meet  future challenges  arising out of  automation  and business 

activities getting more and more based on internet so that after some time they do 

not get insured in respect of their jobs.  I would like to thank the Government of 

India once again for sanctioning seven educational institutions in three years.  It is 

a  great  achievement  of  our  State  after  Independence  as  no  other  State  got  seven 

institutions  in  these  three  years.    Along  with  education,  we  should  also  include 

introducing  students  to  yoga,  ethical  values,  culture,  tradition,  etc.    This  is  the 

legacy that we can give to the future generations.   

 

