    This  Bill  is  very  important,  

because petroleum products are of utmost importance in this country.  I think that 

the  proposed  institute  to  be  set  up  through  this  Bill  would  enable  our  students  to 

take  education  there  and  it  would  benefit  the  country  in  the  future.    You  have 

brought  Petroleum  and  Energy  Institute  of  national  importance  in  the  State  of 

Andhra  Pradesh.    If  such  an  institute  is  also  set  up  in  Punjab,  it  would  be  very 

useful.    These  days  petroleum  products  are  heavily  taxed.    There  is  a  need  to 

reduce  the  taxes on petroleum  products, particularly  for  the  benefit of  agriculture 

sector.   

 

DR.  RATNA  DE  (NAG):  The  Indian  Institute  of  Petroleum  and  Energy 

Bill,  2017  aims  to  set  up  an  Indian  Institute  of  Petroleum  and  Energy  at 

Visakhapatnam,  Andhra  Pradesh.    I  appreciate  the  aim  of  the  Bill  as  it  provides 

high  quality  education  and  research  focusing  on  the  themes  of  petroleum, 

hydrocarbons and energy.  Would the hon. Minister state what is the plan of action 

in place as of now particularly when our aim is very challenging and the amount to 

be spent is so huge?  The said Institute is aimed at extending high quality education 

and  conduct  advance  research  in  all  aspects  relating  to  the  conventional 

hydrocarbons.   I  appreciate  the  exalted  aim.    I  would like  to  know  from  the  hon. 

Minister what measures were put in place to make the functioning of the institute 

transparent and accountable.  There is an urgent need to bring foreign faculty, who 

are  experts  and  who  know  what  new  developments  and  innovations  are  taking 

place in the realm of petroleum and energy sector.  I am representing West Bengal.  

Would  the  hon. Minister  consider setting up  an  institution of national  importance 

to  cater  to  the  emerging  and  challenging  needs  in  the  domain  of  petroleum  and 

energy in West Bengal?   

 

