  I  am  extremely 

thankful 

to 

the 

Government  for  setting  up  of  an  Indian  Institute  of  Technology,  Design  and 

Manufacturing  at  Kurnool.    It  is  to  be  declared  as  an  institution  of  national 

importance.    The  construction  work  has  not  yet  commenced,  though  students  are 

being enrolled for this institute and the classes are being held at Kancheepuram in 

Tamil  Nadu.    The  main  objective  of  this  Bill  is  to  make  available  facilities  for 

higher education, research and training in various fields of technology.  Ours is a 

newly  created  State.    I  request  this  Government  to  set  up  IIM  in  the  backward 

region  of  Rayalaseema  in  Andhra  Pradesh.    There  is  a  feeling  of  disappointment 

among  the  people  of  Andhra  Pradesh  having  lost  a  well-developed  capital.    The 

entire  development  is  being  concentrated  in  and  around  Amaravathi  where  a 

number of universities and Institutes like AIIMS are being set up.  I would request 

this Government to divert some of the developmental activities from Amaravathi to 

Kurnool and to the entire Rayalaseema.  I would request that even Kurnool needs a 

High  Court  to  be  established  there.    I  also  request  the  Government  to  consider 

setting up Institutes relating to dry-land agriculture in Kurnool.   

 

SHRI  MUTHAMSETTI  SRINIVASA  RAO  (AVANTHI):  I  convey  my 

sincere thanks to the hon. HRD Minister and the Prime Minister because they have 

sanctioned almost nine institutes for our State in the last three years.  There are two 

more  institutions  pending  -  the  Tribal  University  and  the  Central  University  and 

expect  that  both  would  be  sanctioned  this  year.    We  are  discussing  only  small 

amendments.  Both our country and our State are agriculture-based.  Our hon. CM 

is an icon for IT revolution in this country.  He is also taking very active initiative 

and active participation for developing the IT industry and educational institutions 

in our State of Andhra Pradesh.  Rayalseema is not neglected.  Our Government is 

giving equal importance to all thirteen districts.  I request the hon. HRD Minister 

to visit all the institutions of national importance.  Private deemed universities are 

also not following the reservation policy.  The Union Government has to enforce 

the reservation policy in all private deemed universities.   

 

