 

This House is a directly elected House.  It is elected on a mandate.  The Standing 

Committees  come  out  with  unanimous  recommendations.    The  present  position 

with  regard  to  the  insolvency  and  bankruptcy  in  India  is  that  we  have  many 

different  legislations.    My  first  preference  would  be  to  have  it  after  consultation.  

There must be an easy formulation of an exit.  With regard to private individuals 

who do business, there is a Provincial Insolvency Act.  Every district in the country 

has  an  insolvency  court.    The  insolvency  court  recovers  the  assets  and  starts 

distributing it.  Virtually nothing reaches as far as the workmen or the creditors are 

concerned.  As far as companies are concerned, there are different methodologies.  

One is the original Companies Act.  The second mechanism, which was created in 

1985, was created that under the Sick Industries Regulation Act, that is, BIFR was 

created.  There is another mechanism, which is also the Debt Recovery Tribunal, 

where  banks  and  financial  institutions  can  move  for  recoveries  of  their  money. 

There  is  a  fourth  mechanism  which  was  set  up  in  the  year  2001,  which  is  the 

SARFAESI  Act.    Workmen  are  the  sufferers  and  they  come  down  very  much  in 

low priority.  When a company or an individual becomes bankrupt or insolvent, all 

his  assets  will  be  taken  into  custody.    The  workmen  will  have  the  first  right 

regarding  an  year's  salary.    After  that,  the  unsecured  creditors  will  come  in.  

Thereafter,  the  taxation  authorities  will  come  in.    It  is  a  progressive  piece  of 

legislation.    The  purpose  of  this  legislation  would  be  that  assets  of  businesses 

which cannot function should not remain unutilized.  We are creating a bankruptcy 

Fund.  I could have styled it even as a Money Bill as I said.  But I want discussion 

because  it  is  an  important  piece  of  legislation.    We  are  willing  to  go  to  one 

Committee.  But we cannot go to Committee after Committee, which means assets 

of  thousands  and  thousands  of  crores  would  be  lying  idle  in  this  country.    So,  if 

everybody  agrees  to  a  Joint  Committee  of  both  Houses,  I  am  willing  for  it.  

Otherwise  I  am  willing  to  take  a  chance.   Let  this  House  pass  it  and  we  will  see 

what happen in the other House.  With these few words, I commend this Bill to the 

hon. House.   

 

