  This  and  the  forthcoming  Bill  on 

amending  the  IIT  Act  will  also  introduce  new  institutions  in  Andhra  Pradesh, 

Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir and there will also be 

an  upgradation  of  another  institute  in  Bihar.    What  we  are  looking  is  just  not 

extending  the  quantity  of  NITs  and  NITs  throughout  the  country  but  also  the 

quality.    The  issue  of  teacher  shortage  is  extremely  crucial.    Our  Parliamentary 

Committee had also pointed out that there is a tremendous dearth of teachers which 

is going  to affect the  quality.   Even the Ministry's own  website points out that in 

the IITs, there is 39 per cent shortage of teaching staff.  In the NITs, shortage is 29 

per cent and in the IIITs, shortage is 36 per cent.  The irony is this that the number 

of public engineering institutions, including the IITs and NITs, are dwarfed by the 

number of private institutions that have come up in the whole country.  About 1.5 

million  to  2  million  engineering  graduates  are  produced  every  year  but 

employability is very low.  The most famous engineer, Shri E. Sreedharan blames 

the  abysmal  quality  of  engineers  on  the  unbridled  growth  of  private  engineering 

colleges with no regulation.  Let me point out why the institutes of public sector, 

the NITs and the IITs, are important.  The greatest institutes in the world are those 

that  do  not  treat  teaching  as  a  profitable  entity.    Some  of  us  had  opportunities  to 

visit  Yale  University,  one  of  the  best-known  universities  in  the  world.    We  were 

impressed  to  learn  that  although  Yale's  fee  that  they  charge  the  students  is  quite 

high, it only represents 14 per cent of the actual cost of teaching.  Why is it?  That 

is  because  86  per  cent  of  the  cost  of  teaching  at  Yale  is  subsidized  from  the 

endowments.    It  is  a  matter  of  serious  concern  that  most  of  the  engineering 

graduates churned out by private institutions are not employable.   The root cause 

of  problem  lies  in  the  profit-motive  of  private  institutions  and  also  they  do  not 

invest in research.  It is also worrisome that only 0.34 per cent of all the students 

enrolled for higher studies get registered for Ph.D.  Moreover, merely 20 per cent 

of the Ph. D. students are enrolled in scientific and technological areas.  The point I 

want to lay stress is that we must invest in research.  This is what needs to change 

if  the  quality  of  our  higher  education  particularly  related  to  NITs,  IITs  is  to 

improve.  I do support this Bill with the caveats that I have pointed out. 

 

