  As  far  as  the  State  of  Uttarakhand  is  concerned, 

notwithstanding  what  the  courts  decide the  passage  of  this  Bill  is a  constitutional 

necessity.    Otherwise,  there  will  be  a  grave  crisis  as  far  as  Uttarakhand  is 

concerned.  This is the first time in the history of Independent India that out of 67 

Members  present,  35  or  36  are  giving  it  in  writing  stating  that  we  have  voted 

against the budget, and the budget is still declared to be passed.  Therefore, there is 

a  serious  doubt  and  a  cloud  whether  a  budget  has  been  passed  or  not.    After  the 

budget  has  passed,  the  Speaker  of  the  House  has  to  certify  and  write  to  the 

Governor  that  the  budget  has  been  passed,  and  the  Governor  has  to  accept  that.  

But  from  18th till  the  midnight of  27th  of  March, when  the  Council of  Ministers 

recommended  action  under  Article  356,  no  recommendation  or  certificate  had 

come that the budget has been passed.  There is a serious doubt about the passing 

of the Budget.  On the 31st of March, having proclaimed the President's Rule, the 

Central  Government  was  faced  with  a  question  as  to  what  happened  to  the  so-

called Budget that has been passed on the 18th of March.  What happened on the 

18th  of  March  itself  was  doubtful  so  we  issued  an  Ordinance  in  support  of  the 

Appropriation Bill itself, sanctioning the appropriation for the financial year 2016-

17.    It  is  that  Ordinance,  along  with  the  Budget,  has  come  up  for  consideration 

before this House today.   

 

Now, various things can happen.  If any new Government is formed of either 

party, it will be entitled to call for its own Session.  Pass its own Budget and make 

changes  to  whatever  we  are  doing.    Alternatively,  if  the  President's  Rule  is  to 

continue, then I have asked for an appropriation for a period of four months so that 

the  expenditure  of  the  State  can  go  on  in  the  meanwhile.    Therefore,  as  a 

constitutional  necessity,  we  should  approve  the  Budget,  the  appropriation  for  a 

period of four months and the Ordinance which has been issued.   

 

