 The motto behind the National Institute of 

Technology Act was to give national importance to them so that they can provide 

or carry out quality education, both in the undergraduate and postgraduate level of 

engineering.    In  2016,  this  Government  set  up  two  new  IISERs  to  meet  the 

regional  imbalance  on  bifurcation  of  the  State  of  Andhra  Pradesh  into  Andhra 

Pradesh and Telangana.  One of them is at Tirupati in the State of Andhra Pradesh 

and the other at Behrampur in the State of Odisha.  My concern is the quality of 

education.    That  is  the  prime  focus  of  the  Government  and  the  Government  is 

providing  a  substantial  amount  of  finance  to  these  institutions.    My  humble 

submission is that there should be an expert committee which should monitor the 

quality  of  engineering  education  in  India  and  the  huge  gap  between  the  global 

ranking and the Asian ranking should be bridged.  The gap between these institutes 

should be bridged.  Faculty from one NIT should move to other NIT.  Similarly, 

students from one NIT can go to other NIT.  All these would help in maintaining 

parity in engineering education in the whole country.  The next point of concern is 

the  research  work.    Is  there  any  report  with  the  Government  as  to  how  many 

research  papers  are  being  submitted  every  year  by  the  engineering  students 

studying  in  these  institutions  in  the  Indian  Journal  and  the  International  Journal?  

Brain drain is a long standing problem of India.  We should create an environment 

where all the brilliant engineering students do research in India and be the pride of 

our  institutions.    Is  the  Government  thinking  of  having  a  common  test  before 

giving the pass out degree or the final certificate to the students who pass out from 

these  NITs?    The  Government  should  consider  this  proposal  so  that  we  could 

know that there is parity of education in all the engineering institutions in India.   

 

