  We  welcome  the  National 

Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2016 

to  add  the  NIT  in  Andhra  Pradesh.    However,  it  is  also  my  duty  to  bring  this 

attention of this House the complete disregard of this Government for the principle 

of quality in its quest for mere quantity. What, for instance, is the current state of 

this  year  NIT  in  Andhra  Pradesh.    The  NIT  with  900  students  functions  out  of  a 

temporary  campus.  There  are  no  laboratories,  no  libraries,  no  high  quality  IT  or 

engineering  tools  for  training.    We  have  a  situation  where  we  have  created  an 

institution  which  was  not  ready  to  be  launched,  but  in  a  haste  they  have  gone 

ahead.   I  want  to  contrast  this  to  what  we  have  just  seen  in  my  constituency  two 

weeks ago, when a fully functioning Central Polytechnic, the best known in Kerala 

established  in  1949,  was  derecognized  by  the  AICTE  for  not  fulfilling  a  list  of 

conditions that they deemed had to be fulfilled. If that same list were applied to the 

new NIT in Andhra Pradesh, it would have been derecognized by the same AICTE. 

So,  the  problem  in  our  system  is  that  our  higher  education  is  overregulated  and 

under-governed.    There  is  a  larger  problem  that  is  hidden  behind  this  Bill.    Even 

our premier IITs are facing today a shortage of trained faculty.  According to the 

Government's own figures, it is about 42 per cent in the IITs, but in the NITs, the 

shortage  is  now  in  the  glaring  vicinity  of  50  per  cent  of  the  authorized  faculty.    

We cannot run education like this.  On top of that, employers across the board are 

complaining  about  the  unemployability  of  Indian  graduates.    A  recent  FICCI 

survey shows a figure of 62 per cent of employers are dissatisfied with the quality 

of our engineering graduates. The fact is that in our haste to add more on paper, we 

must not lose sight of the fact that these are meant to set new and higher standards.  

We are spending in the latest Budget of this Government - 1.2 per cent of our GDP 

on higher  education.   Whereas, South  Korea  which  is  not  far  away.   It  is  2.4  per 

cent  double  of  what  we  are  spending.    Even  our  fellow  BRICS  members, 

companions  in  the  developing  world  are  leaving  us  behind.    They  have  policies 

that focus rightly on quality and not just quantity.  Let me again remind you about 

the Kakodkar Committee reforms.  Really we ought to take those into account and 

implement  them.    In  global  ranking  we  know  our  IITs  will  feature  in  the  top 

hundred.  When we come to the NITs, they do not feature anywhere in the top 500.  

I  fully  agree  with  the  remarks  of  the  hon.  Minister  about  the  importance  of 

innovation.  India today has 17 per cent of the world's brains because we have 17 

per  cent  of  the  world's  people.    But  we  are  only  producing  3.5  per  cent  of  the 

world's  global  research  output.    What  are  we  doing  to  tap  the  possibilities  of 

industry-academia  interface?    I  had  suggested  when  I  was  there  earlier  -  that  we 

could  allow  companies  to  come  directly  to  our  IITs  and  NITs  and  say:  'here  is  a 

research project;  if  the  students  are  prepared  to  research  on  this,  we  will have  an 

agreement.  We  will  innovate  something  and  NIT  can  share  the  profits  with  the 

private companies'.  It happens very commonly in the West.  But we need a policy 

decision  that  will  allow  the  NITs  and  other  institutions  to  have  this  kind  of 

relationship with companies.  I ask you Mr. Minister, are we doing them justice?  

What  is  the  Government  doing  to  align  the  establishment  of  educational 

institutions like this NIT that we are approving today with market research.  What 

kind of engineers do we want in India, or what do employers want, what does the 

government want, what does the future want?  We have talent in our country but 

we do not know how to mould it, how to put it forward.  And I would urge you, 

Mr. Minister, that the Ministry itself should come up with a national level incentive 

to  encourage  more  innovation  in  the  NITs,  IITs  and  elsewhere.    My  party  and  I 

want more higher education institutions to open their door to India's young people 

who are hungry for education.  But we all want these additional institutions to be 

solid, to be well equipped with teachers and resources.  Let us by all means declare 

this  NIT  to  be  an  institution  of  national  importance,  but  let  us  also  make  it  an 

institution of truly national importance.   

 

DR.  KAMBHAMPATI 

  HARIBABU:  The  Andhra  Pradesh  Re-

organization  Bill  states  the  establishment  of  about  11  institutions  in  Andhra 

Pradesh.  When the State was divided, we were not left with any IIT, IIM or even a 

single  NIT  or  IISER.    I  compliment  the  Government  for  taking  such  a  bold 

decision  to  start  nine  institutions  out  of  11  promised  in  a  span  of  20  months  of 

time.  I also compliment the Minister for providing 480 seats in the very first year 

of establishment of NIT.  The funds were allocated.  I request the hon. Minister to 

take steps to see that the construction of the buildings is taken up immediately and 

finished  expeditiously.    Again,  I  have  a  suggestion  for  the  hon.  Minister  to 

consider.    There  are  foreign  financial  institutions  which  are  coming  forward  to 

finance for the projects at LIBOR interest rates or at lesser rates.  I would request 

the hon. Minister to consider this suggestion.  Out of eleven institutions that were 

promised  for  Andhra  Pradesh,  nine  have  been  established;  only  two  are  left  over 

for establishment in Andhra Pradesh: one is the Central University and the other is 

the  Tribal  University. 

  These  two  universities  are  to  be  considered  for 

establishment  in  Andhra  Pradesh  at  the  earliest.    I  have  two  suggestions  -  one  is 

encouraging  quality  in  education  and  the  other  is  innovation.    I  request  the  hon. 

Minister to consider how university colleges can also be brought on par with NITs 

and  other  institutions.    I  think,  if  we  can  take  steps  for  this,  the  quality  of 

engineering education can improve.  

 

