  The  present  Amendment  Bill  provides  for 

financing  mega  nuclear  power  projects  and  allows  joint  venture  projects  between 

the Department of Atomic Energy and other Public Sector Undertakings.  As huge 

investments  are  needed  for  nuclear  power  projects,    this  Bill  will  help  in 

implementing nuclear projects with investments from Public Sector Undertakings.  

India  has  made  giant  strides  in  the  field  of  nuclear  power  generation.    Besides 

power  generation,  there  are  ample  opportunities  for  nuclear  energy  for  extensive 

research  in  the  field  of  medicine,  food,  agriculture  and  fertilizer  production  in 

India.    It  was  only  because  of  the  unwavering  efforts  of  Hon.  Chief  Minister  of 

Tamil Nadu that Koodankulam Nuclear Power Plant started its operation in Tamil 

Nadu.    Out  of  the  1000  MW  of  power  generated  from  Koodankulam  Nuclear 

Power  plant, only  562.50  MW  is  provided  to  Tamil  Nadu.   I  demand  that  all  the 

power generated through nuclear power stations in Tamil Nadu should be provided 

to  Tamil  Nadu.    Although  the  power  generated  from  Kalpakkam  Plant  is  shared 

with  Andhra  Pradesh  and  Karnataka,  but  the  neighbouring  States  do  not  follow 

similar  consideration  while  sharing  water  with  Tamil  Nadu.    Therefore,  I  urge 

upon  the  Union  Government  to  immediately  ensure  sharing  of  water  from 

neighbouring States to Tamil Nadu.  Koodankulam Unit-I has been shut down for 

maintenance  since  June  due  to  which  there  is  power  shortage  in  Tamil  Nadu.  

                                           
* Original in Tamil 

Chief  Minister  of  Tamil  Nadu  has  stressed  a  need  for  the  Union  Government  to 

issue  orders  to  Indian  Atomic  Energy  Commission  to  recommence  power 

generation  in  Koodankulam  Unit-I  as  soon  as  possible.    Tamil  Nadu  remains  a 

progressive  State  in  the  forefront  in  the  field  of  renewable  energy  and  atomic 

energy  in  India.    Between  2001  to  2006,  several  power  projects  were  started  in 

Tamil Nadu with a view to lead the State for self-sufficiency in power sector.  But 

during  the  period  2006-2011,  when  the  minority  Government  was  in  power  in 

Tamil Nadu almost all the power projects commenced by earlier government were 

stalled.  As a result of this, Tamil Nadu faced severe power crisis.  I also request 

the  Union  Government  to  come  forward  to  start  the  first  Joint  Venture  project  in 

the nuclear energy sector in Tamil Nadu.  The paid up share capital of these Joint 

Venture projects should be with the Government Organizations and Public Sector 

Undertakings.   

 

