  This  Bill  seeks  to 

amend Section 5 of the Delhi High Court Act and Section 25 of the Punjab Courts 

Act.  It also seeks to enhance the original pecuniary jurisdiction of the Delhi High 

Court and 11 district courts in the National Capital Territory of Delhi from Rs.20 

lakh to Rs.2 crore.  Enhancement of said jurisdiction would reduce the work  load 

of High Court of Delhi as well as pendency therein and also provide justice at the 

door  steps  of  the  litigant  public  with  reduced  cost  of  litigation  and  maximum 

                                                           
* Laid on the Table as directed by the Speaker. 

convenience.  This Bill empowers the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court to transfer 

any  pending  suit  to  a  relevant  subordinate  court.  This  would  facilitate  speedier 

disposal  of  these  cases.    Both  Union  Parliament  and  State  legislatures  have 

concurrent  power  and  competence  to  alter  the  pecuniary  jurisdiction  of  High 

Courts  and  District  Courts.    Article  239  AA(3)(a)  under  Part  VIII  of  the 

Constitution inter alia expressly curtails the legislative power of NCT of Delhi to 

make  such  amendments  to  law  under  Entry  5  of  List  II  which  is  the  State  List 

under  the  Seventh  Schedule  of  Constitution.  With  reference  to  this,  I  specifically 

wish to mention the number of cases which are pending before the Courts and the 

present  situation  which  has  changed.    If  we  compare  the  High  Court  of  Bombay 

and Kolkata, pendency has reduced.  In this regard if the original jurisdiction gets 

shifted  to  the  trial  courts  up  to  the  limit  of  Rs.2  crore,  it  will  enhance  the 

expeditious disposal of cases.  However, as regards commercial cases, I have one 

submission  to  make  to  the  Government  that  if  the  Commercial  Division  and 

Commercial  Appellate  Division  of  High  Court  Bill,  2015,  could  be  brought 

simultaneously, the cases would not have to be transferred twice over. 

 

