 This Act has been named as Care and 

Protection of Children.  There are 3-4 sections on which I would like to emphasize.  

Section  75  clearly  states  that  newspaper  and  channels  should  not  publicize  or 

exaggerate anything about children.  Section 75(2) also  states that police will not 

disclose  any  record  with  regard  to  children.    I  used  to  run  de-addiction  camps.  

Whenever  we  approach  the  police  by  taking  juveniles  to  them,  you  will  be 

surprised to know that police right away deny by saying that they cannot provide 

shelter  for  them.    In  this  condition,  they  will  have  to  be  sent  either  to  jail  or  to 

remand homes.  They need such an open environment in which they can quit drugs 

and  shun  crimes.   I  would  like  to  thank  the  hon. Minister  for  making  mention  of 

militant  groups  in  Section  84  of  this  Bill  in  which  provisions  of  seven  years 

imprisonment  along  with  a  fine  of  Rs.5  lakh  have  been  made.    When  child 

commits a crime, he is completely discarded by the society.  In this situation, legal 

process involved in adoption is quite complex.  I would like to state that definition 

of adoption should be modified to promote it.  I would request the Government that 

certain  clause  should  be  made  in  this  regard.    When  we  think  about  a  juvenile 

offender,  it  is  necessary  to  understand  the  mentality  of  the    juvenile  as  to  under 

which circumstances he was compelled to commit such crime.  Then only we will 

be able to provide better protection to them and only then will they destined to be a 

good  citizen  of  this  country.    It  is  also  necessary  to  identify  their  skills  and  to 

provide them some short of vocational training.  Then we can be assured that after 

completing the sentence given by juvenile court, they are not going to be  criminals 

again.    I  would  also  like  to  request  that  some  sort  of  parameters  should  be 

prescribed  for  NGOs.    If  anybody  of  16-18  years  of  age  commits  any  heinous 

crime, he should be given severe punishment for that.  But, he should also be given 

at  least  two  opportunities  to  correct  himself.    We  should  be  sympathetic  towards 

children  and  on  the  other  we  have  to  be  strict  with  criminals.    I  think  this  Act 

strikes a balance between both.   

  

