  that  the  Bill  to  provide  for  the 

resolution  of  certain  categories  of  financial  service  providers  in  distress;  the 

deposit  insurance  to  consumers  of  certain  categories  of  financial  services; 

designation of systemically important financial institution; and establishment of a 

Resolution Corporation for protection of consumers of specified service providers 

and of public funds for ensuring the stability and resilience of the financial system 

and  for  matters  connected  therewith  or  incidental  thereto,  be  referred  to  a  Joint 

Committee of the Houses consisting of 30 members, 20 from this House, namely: 

1. Dr. Kirit Somaiya  

2. Shri Gopal Chinayya Shetty  

3. Shri Subhash Chandra Baheria  

4. Shri Nishikant Dubey  

5. Shri Shivkumar C. Udasi  

6. Shri Anil Shirole  

7. Shri Abhishek Singh  

8. Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat  

9. Shri Sanjay Jaiswal  

10. Shri Jagdambika Pal  

11. Shri Jayadev Galla 

12. Shri Gajanan Chandrakant Kirtikar  

13. Shri Chirag Paswan  

14. Shri Gaurav Gogoi  

15. Shri S.P. Muddahanumegowda  

16. Dr. P. Venugopal  

17. Prof. Saugata Roy  

18. Shri Bhartruhari Mahtab  

19. Shri Konda Vishweshwar Reddy  

20. Shri P. Karunakaran  

and 10 members from Rajya Sabha; 

that in order to constitute a sitting of the Joint Committee, the quorum 

shall  be  one-third  of  the  total  number  of  members  of  the  Joint 

Committee;  

 

that the Committee shall make a report to this House by the last day of 

the first week of the next Session;  

 

that in other respects the Rules of Procedure of this House relating to 

Parliamentary  Committees  shall  apply  with  such  variations  and 

modifications as the Speaker may make; and 

 

that  this  House  do  recommend  to  Rajya  Sabha  that  Rajya  Sabha  do 

join the  

said Joint Committee and communicate to this House the 

names of 10  members  to  be  appointed  by  Rajya  Sabha  to  the  Joint 

Committee.”  

 

Thereafter, the following Members made submission: 

