  When  this  Bill  was 

sent  to  the  Rajya  Sabha  after  having  been  passed  from  this  Lok  Sabha,  Rajya 

Sabha considered it for a very long time and subsequently Rajya Sabha decided to 

refer it to the Select Committee.  The Select Committee took a very little time and 

discussed  it  comprehensively  and  submitted  its  report  within  7  days  to  the  Rajya 

Sabha.    I  am  happy  to  note  that  the  Select  Committee  has  also  suggested  certain 

amendments after considering the Bill.  The Government has also agreed to those 

amendments  because  all  of  them  are  good  provisions  and  the  Government  was 

neither reluctant to accept them in the past nor is a Government hesitant to accept 

them  today.    Today,  one  of  the  Hon.  Member  has  suggested  an  amendment.    I 

would like to urge the Hon. Member that only the addition of the word 'exclusive' 

is  not  going  to  make  a  significance  difference  to  the  Bill.    The  original  intent  of 

that word is fully contained in the provisions of the Bill.  Law has its own place but 

the  willpower  of  the  Government  in  implementing  the  law  placed  even  a  greater 

role.    This  Government  wants  to  empower  the  state  governments  further  and  it 

wants that the latter should function with rising accountability.  If we have created 

a  District  Mineral  Foundation  for  spending  the  money  for  the  welfare  of  the 

persons displaced due to mining and for the mining area as a whole then we have 

to show our faith in the state governments.  The guidelines required to be given to 

the state governments have found place in the provisions of the Bill and the state 

governments will be further requested if the need arises.  Therefore, I would like to 

say  that  the hon. Member  that the  original  intent of  his  amendment  is very  much 

contained  in  the  provisions  of  the  Bill.    Therefore,  he  should  withdraw  his 

amendment.  I would request the House that this amendment Bill which has arrived 

in modified form after having been amended by the Rajya Sabha is certainly going 

to  bring  radical  changes  in  the  field  of  mining,  encourage  the  sector,  create 

employment opportunity in the country, increase the investment, put an end to the 

corruption    in  the  allocation  of  mining  and  increase  the  transparency.    I  would 

request the House that these amendments find the consent of all the Members.   

The motion was adopted and the amendments were agreed to. 

 

