 

First  of  all,  the  need  for  giving  the  stature  of  institute  of  national  importance  is 

something to which I would like to draw the attention of every hon. Member.  This 

institution  has  an  all-India  presence  and  has  strived  hard  to  provide  very  good 

quality content of curricula.  Although it is observed by some of the hon. Members 

that  the  courses  were  very  charged  in  the  sense  of  the  fees  as  compared  to  many 

other  institutions.    In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  say  that  the  course  is  self-

financed.    I  am  not  saying  that  the  capital  expenditure  for  building  the  institutes 

will be taken from the students, not at all.  It means that the course's fee would be 

taken  from  the  students  and in that, it is  fully  self-financing.  Since  the nature of 

the course has been such and the job opportunities have been so very well knit, the 

cost of the course has never deterred students from coming and joining.  If we do 

not give that kind of a modern skill, that skill which is very much linked with tastes 

and fashion, we are not going to be able to have the better manpower.  As we are 

aware  that  local  tanning  things  like  natural  residues  have  been  used  in  India  and 

today  India's  tanning  techniques  are  considered  to  be  very  good.    International 

shoemakers  or  international  leather  product  makers  have  always  wanted  Indian 

raw-materials.  In Tamil Nadu there is a lot of leather which is being tanned using 

Kadukkai  which  is  also  considered  to  be  environment-friendly.    So,  this  country-

not today but over the centuries- has had leather tanning and it has given a steady 

flow  of  leather.    That  has  never  obstructed  our  own  cow  protection  movements, 

about which each one of us will have to be proud of and that has been a part of our 

freedom movement's call.  This country has given legitimate leather for the leather 

industry and that would continue.  Similarly, with regard to women.   I just want to 

underscore  the  point  that  in  the  existing  seven  campuses,  the  male-female  ratio 

between students is almost at equal.  So, women students have been given enough 

attention  and  place  in  our  campuses.    There  will  be  enough  representation  of 

women  in  the  centres.    As  regards  reservation,  I  would  state  that  100  per  cent 

existing  laws on  reservations  for SCs, STs, BCs  will  be  implemented  even  in the 

FDDI.  It would not be any different from any other institute in India.   With regard 

to admission policy, the running seven centres are admitting students on the basis 

of a Common All India Selection Test, the CAIST.  Similarly, there has been a lot 

of voice about skill and skill imparting.  I would like to add other than the courses 

which give degrees, certificates and diplomas, there are 96 centres in the country, 

which are called training centres, which train trainers.  They are not only in those 

places  where  the  institutes  of  FDDI  exist  but  also  in  places  in  States  where  the 

institute does not exist.  With regard to opening of new institutes.  At the moment, 

we do not expect to expand more than 12 at this stage.  We would like to limit it at 

12 and prove our standards.  We would try as much as possible when we design the 

contents  or  the  recruitment  or  the  campus  activities  to  involve  the  inputs  which 

each one of Members had given us.  

The Bill was passed. 

 

 

