  The  Central  Government  must  provide 

security  and  insurance  to  farmers  against  any  unprecedented  circumstances.  For 

Price Support Scheme (Minimum Support Price), the Government has increased its 

allocation. This increased allocation is a positive step to cushion the farmers from 

price  instabilities.  The  Government's  grant  to  develop  new  technology  for 

enhancing  the  production,  sustainability  and  profitability  of  livestock  and  poultry 

sector  declined.  The  Government  of  India  also  reduced  its  expenditure  used  to 

facilitate  dissemination  of  research  to  farmers.  There  are  two  other  issues 

pertaining to the State of Maharashtra to which I would like draw the attention of 

the Government of India. Firstly, delays in release of funds for implementation of 

Pradhan  Mantri  Krishi  Sinchayee  Yojana  in  Maharashtra.  Secondly,  delay  in 

release  of  funds  for  Vidarbha  Intensive  Irrigation  Development  Programme,  for 

State  of  Maharashtra.  I  urge  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Farmer's  Welfare  to 

release the remaining amount of Rs. 380 crore for 2016-17.  

 

SHRI  A.T.  NANA  PATIL:  I  rise  to  support  the  Demands  for  Grant  of 

agriculture and farmers welfare. Taking a big step towards doubling the income of 

farmers in next five year, the government have provided a large amount generously 

in the budget 2017-18 for the main schemes like crop insurance, irrigation, health 

card, dairy. The Jalgaon is hit by severe drought during the last three year. Three 

projects  have  been  prepared  by  the  government  of  Maharashtra  to  get  rid  of 

drought in the area, which are waiting for approval at several stages for the many 

years.  I  urge  upon  the  government  that  the  process  for  approval  of  these  project 

should  be  expedited  and  the  construction  work  be  started  at  the  earliest  by 

providing necessary fund. No effect of demonetization has reflect on rabi crop.  

 

