  This  Bill  is  going  to  positively 

contribute to the interest of the consumers in our country.  Chinese companies are  

dumping their products in our country and posing a challenge to Indian companies 

which  are  producing  quality  products  in  our  country.    Samples  of  agriculture 

produce  have  found  to  be  containing  pesticide  residue.    Export  of  tea  from  the 

country  has  come  down  due  to  inferior  quality.    Regarding  hallmarking  of  gold 

jewellery  only  30  percent  of  gold  jewellery  is  hallmarked  in  India.    Some  are 

selling  9  carat,  some  22  carat  and  some  are  selling  14  carat  gold  but  the  poor 

consumer is paying for 22 carat even if he is getting 9 carat.  Hence, this particular 

Bill  is  going  to  address  that  issue.    With  this  Bill  all  the  products,  services  and 

processes  that  are  going  to  be  sold  in  our  country  are  going  to  be  within  the 

purview  of  this  new  legislation.    But  this  Bill  comes  with  a  couple  of  concerns.  

First,  we  should  have  an  independent  Board  for  such  an  important  subject.  

Secondly, on what basis you are going to fix the standard?  There are 'n' numbers 

of goods, services and processes going to come up.  Are we all equipped to do it?  

Thirdly, where are our testing laboratories and the required manpower?  The fourth 

point 

is  regarding  self-certification. 

  The  self-certification 

in  India  has 

unfortunately not worked.  So, what are the checks and balances we have got in the 

system?    The  last  point  is,  coming  back  to  the  issue  of  exports  again,  what 

standards  we  are  going  to  make  with  regard  to  the  international  standards?  

International  standards  have  got  many  things  like  American  standard,  European 

standard  and  many  other  standards.    The  international  trade  agreement  very 

explicitly says that a country can have its own standards, but the standards have to 

be  one  and  the  same  for  the  imported  product  and  for  the  domestic  product.    I 

request  the  Government  and  the  hon.  Minister  to  take  cognizance  of  all  the 

concerns which are of very serious nature before passing the Bill.   

 

