  In  any  democracy,  man  primarily  seeks  the 

right  to  vote  which  we  are  conferring  today  to  those  Indians  who  were  in  the  51 

                                                           
* Original in Bengali. 

enclaves of Bangladesh.  Now my concern is whether we are really being able to 

confer  this  fundamental  right  on  these  people.    Whenever  we  offer  the  Right  to 

Vote,  Right  to  Shelter  automatically  follows.  We  have  schemes  like  Indira  Awas 

Yojana and such other schemes which can be used to provide homes to them.  The 

land on which they are currently putting up is Government land.  Until and unless, 

the  pattas  of  the  land  are  handed  over,  they  cannot  enjoy  the  benefits  of  the 

housing schemes.  Therefore, if we are talking about rights, then all such rights are 

involved. 

 

The  children  were  studying  in  the  schools  in  Bangladesh  and  have  come 

here  with  transfer  certificates.    But  they  are  not  getting  admission  in  Indian 

Schools.  They should be immediately admitted to our institutions.  Otherwise they 

will lose precious one year.  Moreover, people were engaged in cultivation, share 

cropping; or were bus conductors, drivers, grocery shop owners.   

 

Hon. Minister of Law is offering the Right to Vote, but people also need the 

Right  to  Food,  Right  to  Clothing,  Right  to  Education,  Right  to  Work,  otherwise 

everything  becomes  meaningless.    Moreover,  the  healthcare  facilities  should  also 

be  expanded in  those  areas.   I  feel that  when  man  gets the  Right to  Vote then he 

exercises his right to elect his representative.  The Right to Vote leads to another 

right that is,  the right to fight an election as a candidate.  So a person's name must 

be  there  in  the  voter  list  if  he  intends  to  fight  election.    Therefore,  if  the  names 

have been included already in the draft list, then it is okay.  But if names are not 

there  as  yet,  then  by  when  those  can  be  incorporated,  should  be  made  known, 

because  once  the  notification  is  issued,  no  new  names  could  be  included.    The 

arrangement has to be made by the Government and I hope this will be done. 

 

SHRI  PINAKI  MISRA:  The  Election  Laws  (Amendment)  Bill,  2016  has 

been  brought  to  this  House  so  that  this  House  can  give  the  right  to  franchise  to 

14,864  persons  living  in  the  erstwhile  Bangladeshi  enclaves  which  are  now 

amalgamated  to  Indian  territory.    But  merely  giving  them  the  right  to  vote  is  not 

enough.  Article 21 of the Constitution mandates that they get much more than the 

right to vote, which is of course a Fundamental Right.  This Cabinet had approved 

a  rehabilitation  package  and  upgradation  of  infrastructure  in  these  enclaves  on 

December  2,  2015  which  was  to  the  tune  of  Rs.1,006  crore  but  the  money  is  not 

coming from the Centre. 

 

Secondly,  Andhra  Pradesh  has  a  demand  of  this  Government  to  give  them 

Rs. 5 lakh crore for a new Capital.  The Telangana people are today complaining as 

are the people of Odisha that the Polavaram Project has now affected hundreds of 

thousands  of  people  in  Odisha  and  taken  very  very  fertile  agricultural  land  from 

Odisha.    We  have  asked  for  an  R&R  package  and  that  R&R  package  does  not 

come  from  the  Central  Government.        I  think  that  the  hon.  Law  Minister  must 

bring  it  to  the  notice  of  the  Government.    I  beseech  this  government  that  kindly 

fulfil  the  promises  that  you  have  made  to  the  States.    Particularly,  states  like 

Odisha are dependent on the Central Government and they do not have their own 

devices to deal with these kinds of issues. 

 

