 The World Health Organization, in 

its Global Estimates on Depression for 2015, has said that over five crore Indians 

suffered  from  depression  and  over  three  crore  others  suffered  from  anxiety 

disorder in that year.  This was the calculation or the figure of 2015 alone.  Is our 

country equipped to tackle such a burgeoning crisis?  The answer is 'no'.  There is 

no  insurance  coverage  for  a  person  with  a  mental  disorder.    The  Bill  before  us 

today is, no doubt, progressive in many ways.  It is broader and more inclusive, yet 

this Bill received 124 amendments, perhaps the highest for any law.  Readily, the 

Government also has accepted those amendments.  It prohibits electro-convulsive 

therapy  in  children  and  makes  it  mandatory  for  medical  experts  to  use  electric 

shock only under anesthesia for adult patients.  This Bill guarantees every person 

the  right  to  access  mental  healthcare  and  treatment  from  the  Government.    This 

right  includes  affordable  good  quality,  easy  access  to  services  such  as  minimum 

health services in every district.  Decriminalization of the attempt to suicide is one 

of the most outstanding facets of this new Bill.  This Bill provides introduction of 

advance  directives  to  people  with  mental  health  disorder.    It  provides  for 

establishment of a State Mental Health Authority and the Central Health Authority 

alongwith  the  Mental  Health  Review  Commission  to  regulate  the  sector  and 

register institutions.  This Bill requires that every insurance company shall provide 

medical  insurance  for  the  mental  health  on  the  same  basis  as  it  is  available  for 

physical  illness.    The  Bill  ignores  parents  and  families.    The  existing  medical 

infrastructure  is  poor.    Lack  of  specialists  to  treat  mental  disorders  is  another 

problem.  India has just 0.1 psychiatrists for one lakh people compared to 1.7 per 

one lakh in China.  Women particularly in rural areas are subjected to great stress 

in carrying out daily chores and living in a patriarchal, oppressive society.   There 

are very few facilities where woman with mental illness can be treated, and even 

fewer who deal with their rehabilitation in society.  This Bill rightly speaks of not 

separating  a  mentally  ill  mother  from  her  child,  while  she  undergoes  treatment.  

While the intentions of the Bill are laudable, much of it will fall through the cracks 

unless  appropriate  infrastructure  is  set  up.    The  Union  Government  should  give 

financial help to States to provide mental care services up to district level.  Society 

needs to be educated that mental distress, disorders and derangement are inevitable 

byproducts  of  a  stressful  social  order.    As  a  society  we  need  to  move  beyond 

stigma  and  instead  develop  sympathy.    The  Government  needs  to  invest  more 

money and health workers in tackling this challenge. 

 

