 I support the Child Labour (Prohibition 

and  Regulation)  Amendment  Bill  with  certain  reservations.  Child  labour  is  the 

outcome  of  socio-economic  conditions  prevailing  in  our  society.  The  two  main 

socio-economic factors which are having direct link to the child labour are poverty 

and education. It is shameful for the whole country that 45.33 lakh children in the 

age  group  of  five  to  fourteen  years  are  working.  Even  after  seven  decades  of 

Independence,  we  are  not  able  to  have  total  literacy  and  total  preliminary  or 

elementary  education  to  all  children  below  the  age  of  14  years.  We  have  to 

strengthen  public  education  system  and  provide  all  the  facilities  like  clothing, 

uniform, food, study materials and even monthly stipend should be provided to all 

the children, particularly  to those children who are living below the poverty. The 

proposed  amendment  Bill  is  not  sufficient  to  meet  the  requirements  to  contain 

child  labour  in  our  country.  The  major  conventions  of  International  Labour 

Organisation  have  not  been  taken  into  account  in  the  proposed  amendment  Bill. 

Regarding  the  hazardous  occupation  the  list  of  work  has  been  copied  from  the 

Factories  Act. All  those processes  which  jeopardise  the  health,  safety  and  morals 

of  adolescents  should  come  within  the  purview  of  hazardous  job  or  hazardous 

work.  Rescued  children  should  be  properly  rehabilitated.  I  welcome  that  a  Child 

Rehabilitation  Fund  has  been  constituted.  All  errant  employers  should  be  fined. 

Parents and guardians shall not be punished for allowing their children to work in 

hazardous  industries  because  the  poor  workers,    the  agricultural  worker  do  not 

know  which  is  hazardous  and  which  is  not.  A  comprehensive  policy  on  child 

labour is highly essential and the Government should come out with such a policy.  

 

