  I  welcome  this  Bill  because  this 

Government  is  fulfilling  the  commitments  made  at  the  time  of  bifurcation  of  the 

State of Andhra Pradesh.  Tirupati is a centre of educational institutions and many 

of  them  are  supported  by  Tirumala  Tirupati  Devasthanams.  I  would  request  this 

Government  to  promote  and  develop  Tirupati  as  an  educational  and  devotional 

centre  by  developing  the  necessary  infrastructure.    Our  investment  in  scientific 

research is very low as compared to other developed countries.  Though we have 

made  progress  in  setting  up  institutions  of  higher  learning,  they  are  not  able  to 

cope up with the growing population.  We must further note that the aspirations of 

the people are growing and we need to cater institutions to meet the expectations.  

I would also request the hon. Prime Minister to honour all the commitments made 

in Parliament including special category status to the State of Andhra Pradesh. 

 

SHRI MANOJ TIWARI: I would like to extend my sincere thanks to hon. 

Minister  of  Human  Resource  Development  because  he  recently  inaugurated  a 

Kendriya  Vidyalaya  in  my  Parliamentary  Constituency  where  there  was  no 

Kendriya  Vidyalaya  in  North-Eastern  area  of  Delhi.    In  the  year  2004  the  then 

Congress  Government  had  disrupted  the  education  system  by  making  a  rule  that 

whether  a  student  studies  or  not,  he  will  be  promoted  to  the  next  class  upto  8th 

standard.  I would like to thank the hon. Minister of HRD to take measures to do 

away  with  that  system  and  ensure  that  the  students  will  be  promoted  to  the  next 

class  only  when they  study  seriously.   I would  also like  to invite the attention  of 

hon.  Minister  to  the  education  system  in  Delhi.    In  several  schools  of  Delhi,  the 

students go to school for three days in a week because the other group of students 

go to school on remaining three days as there is no adequate space in the schools.  

I would therefore invite the attention of the hon. Minister to the education system 

in the States especially in Delhi where education is in bad shape.  If education is 

the backbone of our country then why we should not think of giving VVIP status 

at  least  to  our  high  school  teachers  so  that  they  teach  the  students  with  renewed 

zeal and enthusiasm.  This is my proposal.   

 

