  The  date  for  the  presentation  of  the  Union 

Budget  had  been  advanced  by  one  month  to  1st  February  from  this  year.    In  this 

context, the hon. Finance Minister has revised the General Financial Rules.  There 

was  a  need  to  revise  the  GFRS  because  there  was  a  change  in  the  Government 

budgeting  pattern  like  removal  of  distinction  in  Plan  and  Non-Plan  Expenditure 

and  also  merger  of  Railway  Budget  into  the  General  Budget.    This  is  a  historic 

revision,  and  it  is  only  the  third  one  after  they  were  first  introduced  in  the  year 

1947.    The  revised  General  Financial  Rules  will  enhance  the  efficiency  and 

professionalism  in  the  system, which  will  benefit all of us.   Our  Government has 

unleashed  some  historic  tax  reforms  such  as  GST,  Bankruptcy  and  Insolvency 

Code,  ease  of  doing  business.    This  all  has  been  done  just  to  get  rid  of  policy 

paralysis which would spur the growth of the Indian economy.  To generate more 

consumer demands, our hon. Finance Minister has announced that persons having 

an  annual  income  up  to  Rs.3  lakh  will  not  have  to  pay  tax.    Persons  having  an 

annual  income  up  to  Rs.5  lakh  will  have  to  be  charged  with  five  per  cent  tax 

instead  of  10  per  cent  tax.    The  Seventh  Pay  Commission  will  also  play  a  major 

role  in  generating  more  consumer  demands.    Our  Government  is  doing  all  the 

necessary  things  in  order  to  give  a  stimulus  policy  to  growth.      As  far  as  the 

Corporate Tax is concerned, income tax to be reduced from 30 per cent to 25 per 

cent  for companies with turnover upto Rs.50 crore.  Our Government believes in 

transparency.    The  political  parties'  limit  for  accepting  cash  donations  has  been 

reduced  from  Rs.20,000  to  Rs.2,000.    While  not  artificially  disturbing  the  free 

market,  the  Government  is  very  much  focused  on  creating  a  truly  welfare  state 

based on fair distribution of wealth.  

 

