 The National Institutes of Technology, 

Science,  Education  and  Research  (Second  Amendment)  Bill,  2016  is  quite 

befitting to the time.  I once again thank him for giving one IISER to Berhampur, 

Odisha and one at Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh.  This University can collaborate with 

this  dam  for  further  studies.    The  other  universities  which  are  close  to  this 

university  are  IIM,  Sambalpur  and  VSS Medical  College.    I  want  to  request  that 

this Institute of Technology should be upgraded to the rank of VSSUT of National 

Importance.    Its  upgradation  has  been  recommended  so  many  times  by  the  UGC 

and  other  committees.    Higher  education  in  our  country  is  in  a  very  challenging 

position.  None of the 200 universities of our country including IIT and IIM figure 

in  the  top  200  universities  of  the  world.    We  have  to  give  employment  to  our 

younger  generation.    A  large  number  of  vacancies  are  there  in  most  of  the 

universities  including  the  central  universities  and  State  universities.    These 

vacancies  should  be  filled  up  and  the  best  students  and  academicians  should  be 

appointed  as  teachers  and  faculties  of  these  universities.    We  should  bring  more 

transparency in employment.  As regards selection of Vice Chancellors, we should 

be more careful.  The persons who may be appointed as Vice Chancellors should 

be  of  high  caliber, good  academician  and  good  administrator  so  that  they  can  be 

the pioneer in bringing reformation in those universities.   

  

SHRI  MUTHAMSETTI  SRINIVASA  RAO  (AVANTHI):  The  National 

Institute  of  Technology,  Science  Education  and  Research  (NITSER)  (Second 

Amendment) Bill, 2016 seeks to amend the NITSER Act, 2007.  It enables NITs to 

receive  additional  funding  from  the  Central  Government  over  and  above  the 

funding  received  by  the  State.    The  Indian  Institute  of  Science  Education  and 

Research,  Tirupati  commonly  referred  to  as  IISER,  Tirupati,  is  a  public  research 

and  education  institute  in  Tirupati,  Andhra  Pradesh.    I  would  request  the  hon. 

Minister  to  consider  a  central  university  and  a  tribal  university  also  in  Andhra 

Pradesh.  ISSER Tirupati is recognized as an Institute of National importance by 

the  Government  of  India.   These  institutes  are  envisaged to  carry  out  research  in 

frontier  areas  of  science  and  to  provide  quality  science  education  at  the  Under-

Graduate and Post-Graduate level.  IISER was declared as an institute of national 

importance under the National Institute of Technology Science and Research Act, 

2012.    I  would  like  to  request  the  Central  Government  to  give  the  DPR  and 

allocate  more  funds  for  this  institute  as  early  as  possible.    Due  to  bifurcation  of  

Andhra Pradesh all the premier institutions of the State have now gone to the state 

of  Telangana.    But  I  would  like  to  request  the  hon. Minister  to  allocate  funds  so 

that the building construction and other infrastructure facilities for the sanctioned 

institutions like IIT, IIM are in place.  I have already mentioned about the Central 

University  and  the  Tribal  University.    This  may  kindly  be  expedited.    Education 

endows  wisdom  and  confidence  amongst  people.    It  helps  the  society  to  grow.  

Owing to  privatization, liberalization  and  globalization, so  many  private  colleges 

have come up.  But with so many colleges, the industrial growth of the country is 

not commensurate.  As our previous speakers mentioned that 30 per cent of people 

are employable and 70 per cent of them are not employable.  This country needs 

more  and  more  industrialization  then  only  we  can  provide  employment  for  the 

engineering  graduates.    I  would  like  to  request  the  hon.  Minister  to  implement  a 

uniform  education  policy  throughout  the  country.    There  should  be  uniform 

syllabus;  there  should  be  uniform  fee  structure  and  uniform  rules.    Once  upon  a 

time,  this  country  was  imparting  education  to  other  countries  but  unfortunately, 

our  people  are    nowgoing  to  other  countries  for  education.    At  least,  in  this 

Government's  tenure,  hon'ble  Minister  may  kindly  focus  on  all  IITs,  NIITs,  etc. 

and  get  them  into  international  standard.    There  is  a  variation  between  the 

University  syllabus  and  the  industry  requirement.    There  is  a  need  to  fill  up  this 

gap.  We  need  to  focus  on  moral  education  also.    We  have  a  lot  of  morals  to  be 

learnt from our Puranas, Mahabharata and Ramayana. 

 

