 As per the Report of Child Rights 

and You (Crime), about 1.02 crore children are earning their livelihood by working 

as  child  labours.    There  should  be  pen,  books  in  the  hands  of  these  children  and 

dreams  of  future  in  their  eyes  but  there  are  crores  of  children  in  the  world  who 

have no dreams in their eyes but to earn their two square meals is the only dreams 

in  their  eyes.    Today,  about  68  lakh  children  and  58  lakh  girls  are  trapped  in 

vicious circle to work as child labour and this grave situation is enough to jolt the 

conscience of a civilized society.  These children who are selling books, washing 

utensils,  selling  tea  have  great  potential  of  their  becoming  a  writer,  doctor, 

engineer,  administrator,  manager,  litterateur,  philosopher,  great  scientists  and 

leaders      provided  they  are  given  an  opportunity.    A  committee  was  constituted 

under the chairmanship of Gurupad Swami in 1979 to suggest remedial measures 

to get rid of the problem of child labour.  The Committee was also of the view that 

until  and  unless  there  is  poverty  and  unemployment,  we  cannot  get  rid  of  child 

labour.    Therefore,  we  have  to  rise  above  our  party  affiliations  and  thrash  out  a 

solution to this problem by sitting together.  The present Government has allocated 

a  sum  of  Rs.100  crore  in  the  budget  for  2015-16  on  this  count.    It  is  really 

praiseworthy.    Children  who  are  working  in  hazardous  works  have  been  rescued 

under  National  Child  Labour  Scheme  and  they  have  been  admitted  in  special 

schools.      The  Government  has  been  adopting  a  multi  dimensional  strategy  to 

remove  the  problem  of  poverty  and  illiteracy  deeming  it  the  main  cause  of  child 

labour.  Children assisting their parents in agriculture or in their family work learn 

the  quality  of  the  work.    As  such  the  Cabinet  has  approved  amendments  to  the 

Child Labour Law to establish a balance between the education of children and the 

socio-economic status of the country and has permitted the children to assist their 

family  or  in  their  family  enterprise.    This  is  a  commendable  thing.    It  has  been 

proposed  to  allow  children  to  assist  in  domestic  work  of  the  family  after  school 

hours.    However,  it  is  necessary  to  clarify  the  meaning  of  assistance  and 

employment both.  Under it, issues of working hours, salary, fund etc. need to be 

clarified because clever entrepreneurs will take benefits of this Rule fully.  It is my 

suggestion that the most appropriate place to ensure the implementation of this law 

is  the nearest  school.   I  hope that  the  law, which  we  are  considering  upon  today, 

will completely remove child labour and will be able to ensure the rightful place to 

the childhood. 

 

