    Once  this  Bill  becomes  an  Act  and  is  implemented,  has  a 

significant impact on the taxation methodology on India. In our present system, 

there are multiple direct and indirect taxes and multiple assessing officers. The 

nature of economic activity today is changing because a number of these taxes, 

by  their  nature,  are  converging.  Even  though  we  become  a  political  entity  in 

1947,  India  remained  different  economic  entities.  Every  State  had  its  own  tax 

and  different  tax  rates  because  of  which  a  lot  of  economic  resources  are  lost. 

There is no free flow of goods and services in the country. The object of GST is 

to have one tax whereby each assesse has only one interface with one assessing 

officer. It should become a more efficient tax which is not easy to breach so that 

compliance  is  higher.  The  Constitution  of  India  clearly  divided  the  power 

between the Centre and the State through the Central List, the State List and the 

Concurrent  List.  If  the  Centre  exercises  it,  that  power  prevails.  In  division  of 

power, there was no grey area. The idea of GST actually created the grey area. 

The grey area is that you will have a tax which will be jointly imposed by the 

Centre  and  the  States.  It  will  be  one  tax.  The  Centre  and  the  States  will  all 

merge their taxes into that one tax. The Centre and the States have both pooled 

their power into one tax. There is a shared sovereignty between the Centre and 

the  States.  We  have  created  India's  first  federal  decision  making  authority.  By 

the method of pooled sovereignty, the Centre and the States will jointly decide 

what  the  taxation  rates  are,  how  the  laws  are  and  how  they  have  to  be 

administered. Today, when you have tax on tax the good becomes costlier. Once 

all 

that 

is  removed, 

the  goods  will  become  slightly  cheaper.  The 

recommendation of the law and the rates will come from the Council.  

It  is  the  GST  Council  which  will  decide  the  rate.  The  GST  Council  got  the 

power under article 279(A) to make a recommendation with regard to the model 

law.  There  will  be  parliamentary  control;  there  will  be  control  of  State 

Legislatures  on  annual  financial  statements  and  on  the  rates  which  were 

included  in  the  Financial  Bill.  Ordinarily,  those  recommendations  are  to  be 

acted  upon  and  in  case  these  are  not  acted  upon,  we  can  refer  it  back  for 

reconsideration. Therefore, read article 246(A) and article 279(a) harmoniously 

and  therefore,  the  authority  of  law  that  article  265  talks  of  is  the  law  framed 

under article 246(a) which Parliament and State Assemblies will approve on the 

recommendation of the GST Council.  Therefore, this is the authority of law in 

accordance with Article 265. The government has adopted Compensation Cess 

formula instead of taxation formula for compensating states. If the government 

had followed taxation formula, the total tax impact of funding the compensation 

through a tax would be abnormally high. A Rs 1,72,000 crore of tax would have 

to  be  imposed  for  the  Central  Government  to  get  Rs  50,000  crore  in  order  to 

fund  the  compensation.  There  will  be  no  extra  burden  on  consumers  in  this 

formula. It will remain transient for the period of 5 years so that this can be used 

as far as the compensation is concerned. You have raised it as to why this is a 

Money Bill. This Bill seeks to replace the Central Excise Law, the Service Tax 

Law,  the  VAT  Law  and  the  various  other  taxation  laws.  It  consolidates  them 

into one. According to Article 110 of the Constitution if a Bill seeks to impose a 

tax,  it  shall  always  be  deemed  to  be  a  Money  Bill.  Some  Member  were 

uncomfortable about the idea of an anti-profiteering clause? An anti-profiteering 

clause  is  that  nobody  must  have  an  unjust  enrichment  because  of  taxation.  If 

there is a tax rebate, then it must be passed on to the consumer. That is the anti-

profiteering clause which is there in this Bill. Shri Moily rightly argued that tax 

evasion  takes  place  in  real  estate  transactions  also,  so  real  estate  should  be 

brought under the ambit of GST. As  I said in the beginning that it is a federal 

body  and  we  have  to  consult  states  also  in  this  matter.  But  the  states  were 

apprehensive  that  if  the  real  estate  is  included  in  the  GST  the  collection  of 

stamp  duty  etc.  would  be  affected.  Thereafter,  the  Chief  Economic  Advisor 

prepared a Paper in which he said that 'the States can keep their stamp duty and 

other revenues that they get out of it.' These are the advantages the States will 

get. The Finance Minister of Delhi made a detailed presentation to the Council, 

making a strong case why real estate should be included. After listening to him 

and these presentations, the Council decided: " Let the GST be implemented. In 

the very first year, we will take up the issue of real estate whether we have to 

bring it within the consideration itself or not." Same is the position with regard 

to petroleum products and potable alcohol/consumable alcohol. States held that 

huge revenue is involved in these products and they cannot agree with regard to 

these  products.  After  deliberations  we  persuaded  the  states  and  told  them  that 

alcohol would be spared but petroleum would be included in the GST through 

Constitutional Amendment. Today, petroleum has been Constitutionally within 

the  GST,  but  its  GST  will  be  zero-rated.  Once  the  experiment  of  GST  moves 

forward,  the  Council  will  have  an  opportunity  without  amending  the 

Constitution to decide what is to be done with regard to the petroleum products 

itself. The Council had some apprehensions regarding certain issues. But so far 

as the Council has worked, I have thought it proper that we would take decision 

on the basis of consensus. The review of the Revenue Service was that as far as 

the  IGST  law  is  concerned,  it  has  to  be  entirely  centrally  administered.  The 

reasoning they gave was from the language of the Constitution itself as also the 

fact  that  if  there  is  a  dispute  between  two  states  then  one  or  the  two  states 

should not become the adjudicator. This issue was discussed at length and by a 

unanimous decision we arrived at an arrangement. If you see Article 258 of the 

constitution, if the Centre has to perform taxation function, which is under IGST 

we can perform under the Constitution, the Centre is empowered to delegate it 

to  one  of  the  state.  Many  regional  parties  including  the  West  Bengal 

Government  were  very  particular  on  the  sharing  of  this  power  with  the  states 

itself and did not want Centre to exclusively have this power. The Council took 

an  alternative  view.  I,  then,  had  a  meeting  with  the  current  C&AG  and  I 

conveyed  to  him  the  views  that  your  authority  remains  unchallenged  or 

unchanged  but  the  source  of  your  authority  is  the  Constitution  as  also  the 

provisions of the C&AG Act itself. That jurisdiction remains. If you have hired 

contract  labour  but  it  does  not  mean  that  the  products  you  call  agricultural 

products  will  also  be  taxed.  These  products  can  still  be  zero  rated.  And  you 

should consider this with this point of view. I think there is no confusion in this 

because these products are to be kept in category of zero rated products. I was 

referring  to  the  banking  provision.  With  regard  to  exemption  from  multiple 

registrations, there is a overriding power under Clause 148 which is there. The 

Central  Government  only  has  a  ministerial  job  of  notifying  the  rates.  The 

Central Government does not decide the rates. Madam, the Council is going to 

be,  as  I  said,  a  permanent  body  and  that  permanent  body  is  represented  by 

almost every State Government, literally by every State Government.  

All the Bills were passed. 

 

 

© 2017 BY LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT 

NOTE:  It  is  the  verbatim  Debates  of  the  Lok  Sabha  and  not  the  Synopsis  that 

