  During 

the last 18 months, rapid progress has been achieved in the department of atomic 

energy and also in the field of atomic energy.  At present, we have got 21 reactors 

and  very  soon  we  will  add  up  six  more  reactors.    Just  two  days  back  we  have 

finalised an MoU with Japan.  In the years to come, nuclear power in India is set to 

become one of the major source of energy and also electricity.  The Atomic Energy 

Act of India was enacted in 1962 with rapid expansion of our nuclear programme, 

we  have  two  main  constraints  coming  forward.    The  Act  makes  it  binding  on  us 

that  all  the  future  reactors  or  future  establishments  have  to  be  set  up  by  these 

corporations.  Secondly, the financial constraints on the part of these corporations 

also  make  it  difficult  to  proceed  forward.    Therefore,  keeping  these  two 

consideration,  we  can  have  a  provision  of  a  joint  venture  with  other  government 

establishments  including  PSUs.    But  the  Atomic  Energy  Act  of  1962  debars  us 

from  entering  into  any  kind  of  a  joint  venture.    So,  one  of  the  amendments  is 

pertaining to that.  In the 1962 Act, the Government company is defined as the one 

which has a share of not less than 51 per cent.  When we enter into a joint venture, 

we might sometimes have a company which may not be having that much of share 

because it would be always be a government company or a government sector unit.  

Therefore, we have tried to bring in an amendment so as to make an provision that 

this will be 51 per cent jointly.  The need for this has arisen to meet the immediate 

need  of  equity  infusion  to  augment  country's  nuclear  power  generation  capacity.   

The present constraint is that currently the atomic energy Act narrowly defines the 

category  of  companies  eligible  for  licence  to  produce  nuclear  power.    The 

definition of the government company is the one not less than 51 per cent of paid 

up shares in the capital held by the Central Government.   If in future that company 

does not remain in government sector for any reasons then government would have 

the right to cancel the licence.   

 

