 I am sure and confident that this Bill will help 

in reducing these NPAs and 70,000 cases that are pending involving more than Rs. 

5  lakh  crore  in  debt  recovery  tribunals  in  India  today.  The  Bill  is  proposing  to 

amend four Acts. First, I would talk about the SARFAESI Act. The Committee has 

brought  out  some  valuable  modifications  with  regard  to  the  definition  ‘asset 

reconstruction  company’.  But,  its  provisions  did  not  specifically  mention 

cooperative  banks.  Here,  the  objective  is  not  under  which  legislation  they  are 

included.  But the objective is to bring down NPAs of each and every bank. Even 

the RBI was in favour of bringing State, district and urban cooperative banks under 

the SARFAESI Act.  So, I am sure the Hon. Minister can find some way to include 

cooperative banks under this Act as well. The Bill also does not have a definition 

for  ‘borrower’.  It  should  specifically  include  a  person  who  has  taken  loan  or 

advance  from  an  institution  other  than  the  bank.  So,  I  would  suggest  for 

consideration  of  the  Hon.  Minister  to  also  include  definition  for  ‘borrower’  to 

make this clearer. Amendments to the SARFAESI Act are also important because 

the implementation of this Act is quite pathetic. It is because of the hurdles that the 

DRTs  put  in.    And, the  DRTs  are  routinely  granting  ex  parte  stay  of  such  action 

and  thereafter  the  matters  will  hang  for  years  together.  So,  I  suggest  for 

consideration  of  the  hon.  Minister  that  stay  under  Section  13(2),  13(4)  and  14  of 

the SARFAESI Act up to 10 lakhs should be given to District Magistrate or Civil 

Court instead of giving elbowroom to borrower to maneuver and sneak away under 

Section 17 from DRT. I have a small suggestion to make with regard to Clause 10 

of the Bill which proposes to amend Section 12 which deals with penalties for non-

compliance  of  directions  of  the  RBI.  Rs.  1  crore  is  proposed.  But  no  time-frame 

has been fixed within which it has to be paid. I submit that the penalty should be 

paid within a period of 30 days from the date of issue of notice. Clause 26 of the 

Bill  proposes  to  amend  Section  6  of  the  second  Act.  The  proposed  amendment 

increases the age of the Presiding Officer of a Tribunal from 62 to 65. But, there is 

a proviso which says, ‘Provided that any Presiding Officer of a Tribunal who has 

completed his term, shall also be eligible for reappointment as a Presiding Officer.’ 

It  means,  the  PO  can  be  appointed  again  and  again.  How  many  terms  can  he  be 

appointed,  the  amendment  is  silent.  I  suggest  for  the  consideration  of  the  Hon. 

Minister that only one additional term may be permitted. The second point I wish 

to make is relating to Clause 29 of the Bill which proposes to substitute sub-section 

5  with  a  new  sub-section.  But  in  this  clause,  no  period  has  been  specified  within 

which  defendant  has  to  submit  the  documents.  So,  I  suggest  that  it  should  be 

specified  that  the  defendant  will  not  have any  right  to  file  written  statement  after 

expiry of 45 days.  Out of five Chairpersons of DRTs in the country, only two are 

in  position  today  and  out  of  39  Presiding  Officers  of  DRTs,  nine  are  vacant.  I 

wanted to know from the hon. Minister what steps he is taking to fill the vacancies 

and by when they are likely to be filled. Also, I welcome that Clause 30 of the Bill 

permits  electronic  filing  of  recovery  applications,  documents  and  written 

statement. It should be followed in all judicial matters. This will not only save time 

but also money. With these observations, I once again support the Bill and request 

the hon. Finance Minister to ponder over the suggestions made by me which, I am 

confident, will help in better implementation of the Bill.  

 

