  There  are  delicate  fault  lines  in  our 

society  like  this  where  after  69  years  of  Independence  we  have  people  who  are 

enslaved  in  large  sections  by  poverty,  social  inequality  and  bound  together  by  a 

need for survival.  Child labour is one such reality.  There are different definitions 

given to the term child labour.  We need to look into this and align this with Right 

to  Education  as  well  which  this  Bill  has  attempted  to  do.    We  have  the  largest 

amount of child labour in the world.  Non-Government statistics say that we have 

30  million  children  in  child  labour  and  15  million  of  them  are  bonded  labour, 

which  is  even  more  severe.    The  reasons  are  very  obvious.    It  is  poverty  due  to 

which  the  need  for  an  extra  income  arises.    The  fact  is  that  80  per  cent  of  these 

children  are  working  in  rural  areas  as  agriculture  labour.    This  Bill  looks  at  the 

distinction between a child and an adolescent.  It also balances the need for basic 

education with the need for an extra income.  It also aligns itself with other laws.  

It  also  increases  the  punishment  for  somebody  who  hires  children.    This  Bills 

prohibits  all  forms  of  child  labour  with  the  exception  of  children  who  are  aiding 

their  families  in  non-hazardous  occupations  after  school  or  during  vacation.    In 

India, we have unorganized occupations where people pass on their skills to their 

children.  However, this Bill has not clarified one thing completely which is 70 per 

cent  of  our  children  work  as  an  aid  in  the  contractual  labour  with  their  parents 

which is actually bonded labour.  The Bill gives the power to the Government for 

omitting  processes  from  Schedules.    This  can  be  misused.    So,  this  needs  to  be 

looked into.  Rather than giving power to the Government for omitting processes 

from  Schedules,  a  Parliamentary  clearance  for  the  same  would  be  a  better 

safeguard.    There  is  a  need  to  make  this  Bill  in  sync  with  the  RTE  Act  and  the 

Bonded  Labour  Rules.    Then  I  come  to  strengthening  of  the  inspection  process.  

The  Bill  says  that  appropriate  inspection  should  be  done  where  employment  of 

children  are  prohibited.    But  the  monitoring  needs  to  be  extended  to  adolescents 

which are working in non-hazardous places because a child is working against his 

will even in places where he is allowed to work.  We still have a system where we 

do  not  train  our  children  for  employment.    How  on  earth  are  we  going  to  move 

forward as a country? 

 

SHRI AKSHAY YADAV: A country cannot make progress where future of 

children  is  not  secured.    United  Nations  Child  Rights  Protocol  and  the  138th 

Convention of the International Labour Organisation considers the age of a child as 

18  years.    In  such  a  situation,  what  was  the  need  to  reduce  the  age  of  a  child?  

Children of age from 14 to 18 years are the maximum victim of trafficking.  This 

Bill is going to give impetus to human trafficking.  We should find ways to provide 

better  education  to  the  children  of  the  age  of  upto  18  years.    Right  to  Education 

should  be  given  to  children  of  the  age  of  upto  18  years  instead  of  14  years.  

Aadhaar  cards  should  be  made  compulsory  for  the  school  admission.    School 

dropouts also need attention.  It is not proper if the children work in the  name of 

family enterprises.  The Government should enact a law whereby we can provide 

freedom of studies to our children.  Child labour are not paid at full rate of wages.  

This also is a sort of generating black money.   

 

