    The  Bill  seeks  to  amend  the  National  Bank  for 

Agriculture  and  Rural  Development  Act,  1981.    The  commercial  banks  provide 

almost three- fourth of the total agricultural credit in the country and the Regional 

Rural  Banks  provide  another  ten  percent.    The  major  portion  of  this  credit  is 

financed by NABARD but most of these agricultural advances had not reached the 

needy  farmers  and  is  siphoned  off    by  the  middle  class  people  for  consumption 

rather than agricultural purposes.  Reason being concentration of commercial bank 

branches  in  urban  and  semi-  urban  areas.    The  quantum  of  agriculture  advance 

released to farmers proves that the real farmers are denied low cost credit.  Out of 

the  total  bank  advances,  commercial  banks  have  contributed  72  per  cent,  the 

Regional Rural Banks 11 per cent and the cooperative banks 17 per cent.  The RBI 

and  NABARD  should  be  directed  to  create  a  foolproof  mechanism  by  which  the 

entire  advance  at  low  cost  is  distributed  or  channelised  to  the  farmers  through  a 

local level service cooperative bank.   The RBI is to ensure that the public deposits 

in  such  local  cooperative  banks  are  safe.    Its  liquidity  should  be  assured  by 

NABARD  and  RBI  and  the  administrative  control  which  may  be  vested  with  the 

States.      The  State  cooperative  sector,  its  administration,  audit  and  enforcement 

need  to  be  totally  overhauled.    The  present  lethargic  bureaucracy  be  totally 

abolished  and  a  pure  banking  based  management  and  administration  of  primary 

cooperative bank be evolved by NABARD.  

 

SHRI  C.K.  SANGMA:    I  stand  to  support  this  Bill.    The  objectives  of 

NABARD are very positive, the slogan is very positive and entrepreneurship is the 

way forward.  We do not have the information in most of the locations on what the 

growth of agriculture has been because of the increase and implementation of these 

irrigation  schemes.    I  suggest  to  the  Hon.  Ministry  of  Agriculture  as  well  as  the 

Ministry  of  Finance  that  we  should  have  a  centralized  data  bank  that  actually 

oversees the change in the production after these irrigation projects are done. The 

North-East has a huge potential when it comes to dairy industry.  But sadly, in the 

last few years the North-East has not even received about Rs. 20 crore in terms of 

these  investments  and  my  State  has  not  even  touched  Rs.  5  crore.    So,  with  the 

huge  international  borders  that  we  have-  almost  4,000  plus  kilometers  of  border- 

the potential that we have to export even milk I think is huge.  That will help the 

farmers  and  the  people  who  are  raising  these  cattle  also.    I  think  this  potential 

should  be  looked  into  and  more  attention  should  be  paid  to  this  particular  sector.  

Most of the North-East region that we have is very rich in vegetables and very rich 

in horticulture products but sadly there is no value addition. Could I also get some 

kind  of  assurance  from  the  Ministry  and  from  the  Hon.  Minister  that  food 

processing  also  would  be  given  equal  importance  just  like  the  irrigation  and  the 

dairy farming is being given?  If food processing comes in, then it will go with the 

idea of NABARD which is "Gaon Bade To Desh Bade". 

 

