 Once upon a time, our country was known as the 

golden bird in the world.  As per Prof. Angus Meddison the GDP of our country in 

the year 1000 AD contributed 32 per cent of the GDP of the world and we were the 

top trading nation  in the  world.   Now the crux of the  matter is as to  how  we  can 

revert back to those golden times and how can we become the top trading nation in 

the  world  again.    For  it  to  happen  we  have  to  analyze  both  our  strengths  and 

weaknesses  and  we  have  to  frame  our  policies  keeping  our  country  as  their  focal 

point  in  order  to  move  ahead.    This  budget  is  historical  in  the  sense  that  it  is 

completely  in  sync  with  the  economic  requirements  of  our  country.    This  is  a 

complete  paradigm  shift  and  it  is  by  pursuing  these  policies  that  we  are  going  to 

attain  the  pole  position  in  the  world.    Very  recently,  we  have  approved  four 

complementary GST legislations.  It is through GST that the country is going to get 

rid of  the  plethora  of  taxes  which  is  likely  to  spread the tax net  and  augment  the 

revenue  of  both  the  centre  as  well  states.    Farmers  constitute  70  per  cent  of  our 

population and we have witnessed a record production in our country.  The budget 

has been one of the regular features of our polity.  However, what is novel about 

this budget is that we have prioritized it keeping in view the 70 per cent population 

of  the  country.   The  top  most  priority  has  been given  to  the  agriculture  and  rural 

sectors.   

 

Irrigation  capacity  has  to  be  augmented  to  increase  the  income  of  farmer.  

Irrigation facilities are not available for 65 per cent of land out of total 14.2 crore 

hectare  agricultural  land.      For  the  first  time  in  the  country,  a  provision  of  Rs. 

50,000 crore has been made for irrigation facilities from the year 2015-16 to 2019-

20.    The  government  has  tried  to  simplify  the  income  tax  procedure.    The 

government  has  started  e-submission  of  income  tax  returns  and  e-refund  has  also 

been started.  This year's finance bill provides for affordable housing to the people.  

There  is  a  target  of  constructing  two  crore  housing  units  in  the  country  in  urban 

areas  by  the  years  2022.    A  target  of  constructing  one  crore  housing  units  under 

Pradhan  Mantri  Grameen  Awas  Yojana  has  been  fixed  for  the  next  three  years.  

Earlier, base year for calculating capital gain was 1981.  Now, the government is 

considering 2001 to fix as base year for this purpose.  Presently, India is one of the 

fastest  growing  economies  in  the  world.    The  government  has  deviated  from  the 

tradition  and  preponed  the  presentation  of  budget  by  one  month.    This  will 

facilitate  timely  release  of  funds  to  the  states.    The  revenue  receipts  of  the 

government  through  direct  and  indirect  taxes  are  a  record  Rs.  13.9  lakh  crore.  

Devolution    to  states  has  also  increased.    Earlier,  this  amount  was  Rs.  9.9  lakh 

crore which has now increased to Rs. 10.8 lakh crore.  The data released by CSO 

expressly  said  that  GDP  of  the  country  remained  above  7  per  cent  even  during 

demonetisation  period.    The  report  by  the  Moody's  also  says  that  the  decisions 

taken by the government of India will have long term effects on Indian economy.  

Report of IMF also expects Indian GDP to remain 6.6 per cent.  The government 

has  issued  20  crore  RuPay  cards  to  take  the  country  forward  in  the  direction  of 

Digital  India  and  26  crore  people  have  been  brought  into  the  banking  system 

through  Jan  Dhan  accounts.    Digital  transactions  will  increase  the  GDP  and  tax 

collection.    Indian  postal  payment  bank  has  been  started.    The  government  is 

concentrating on ease of doing business.  There are more than 2.53 lakh chartered 

accountants in the country.  The government has taken them into confidence in its 

fight against black money.  The chartered accountants who earlier used to suggest 

ways  of  saving  tax, are  now  advising  the  people  to  pay  taxes.    An  allocation  Rs. 

12,000 crore has been made for Skill Development Scheme.  Natural calamities in 

the  country  always  put  the  farmers  in  distress.    The  government  has  introduced 

Fasal Bima Yojana to help them.  Till now, 66 lakh farmers have been benefitted 

from  the  Fasal  Bima  Yojana.    An  allocation  of  Rs.  41  thousand  crore  has  been 

made for agriculture credit through NABARD.  Soil Health Card Scheme has been 

introduced. Neem coating of Urea will stop its black marketing.  This finance bill 

tries to put in place a better tax regime.  Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti Yojana 

and  Ujala  Yojana  have  been  introduced.    A  target  has  been  fixed  to  provide  gas 

connections to five crore BPL households under Ujjawala Yojana.  Earlier, cost of 

stents  used  for  cardiac  patients  was  Rs.  2.4  lakh.    These  stents  will  now  be 

available  for  Rs.  35,000  in  the  country.    Jan  Aushadhi  Kendras  are  being  set  up.  

Our endeavour is to ensure that the farmers, the poor, the youth and the women of 

the country progress hand-in-hand.  With the efforts of Department of Electronics, 

72 new mobile factories have come in the country in the last two years which have 

manufactured  11  crore  mobile  phones  in  the  country  providing  employment  to 

approximately two lakh people, directly or indirectly.  India is likely to become a 

manufacturing hub of electronic industry.    

 

