 This Bill, in fact, is the need of the hour.  With 

this  Bill,  it  will  improve  the  faith  of  the  investors  in  legal  culture  of  the  nation, 

improve  the  international  image  of  the  Indian  Justice  Delivery  System  and 

consequently,  it  will  accelerate  the  economic  growth  of  the  country.    In  the 

globalized  economy  and  in  the  international  trade,  the  commercial  disputes  have 

increased to a large extent.  We need specialized courts for this purpose.  All over 

the world, the specialized courts have been set up and we are far behind for setting 

up  of  these  specialized  courts.    I  congratulate  hon.  Law  Minister  that  six  months 

time  has  been  provided  to  dispose  of  the  matter.    The  commercial  courts  are 

proposed to overcome the delay in judicial process and so far the Government of 

India  is  committed  to  create  an  FDI  friendly  environment  to  attract  more  foreign 

investment in economic growth of the country.  Now, this Bill creates courts where 

the original jurisdiction of the High Court is also there.  So, my suggestion to the 

hon.  Law  Minister  is  that  the  original  jurisdiction  of  all  the  High  Courts  may  be 

repealed  and  uniform  jurisdiction  of  all  the  High  Courts  to  be  created  in  the 

country.  Again, we have to evolve a transparent method of appointment of judges 

and appoint those judges having specialised knowledge in commercial law.  Apart 

from this, in advanced countries like European and American countries, process of 

pre-litigation mediation is there.  But in our country we are not finding any law.  If 

this  process  and  this  provision  is  taken  into  consideration,  at  least  like  in  other 

countries in our country also we can mitigate these grievances to a large extent and 

around 75 percent cases can be reduced.  My suggestion to the hon. Law Minister 

is  that  we  can  include  all  Acts  which  are  dealing  with  the  commercial  disputes.  

Those Acts can be clubbed together and can be made as a part of the Schedule of 

this  Bill.    Apart  from  that,  we  have  to  take  into  account  that  we  establish  these 

courts  on  pilot  basis.    Not  only  this,  we  have  to  create  the  state  of  the  art 

infrastructure  and  human  resources  including  judges  and  staff.    If  we  have 

specialized  courts,  then  our  justice  delivery  system  will  also  be  of  international 

level.    As  a  result,  the  FDI  will  increase  and  consequently,  the  economy  of  the 

country will grow.  So far as the criminal justice delivery system is concerned, it is 

the sovereign duty of the Government, but so far as civil justice delivery system is 

concerned, it is a service being rendered by the Government. So, for that service, 

the Government should be compensated suitably. For this purpose, a professional 

cost accounting wing should be established in every High Court.  It should assess 

the  amount  to  be  charged  and  how  much  court  fees  needs  to  be  levied  from  a 

particular litigant.  Or, it  may fix a common court fee for this purpose.  The cost 

should be provided for seeking an adjournment and it should increase gradually.  If 

one approaches for arbitration then the sunset clause should be there.  The verdict 

given by the arbitrator should also be binding on him.  

 

