 The Government has launched the 

Pradhan  Mantri  Awas  Yojana  with  a  vision  to  provide  'Housing  for  All  by  2022'. 

Under  this  scheme  interest  subvention  has  been  increased  to  6.50  per  cent  on 

housing  loans  to  beneficiaries  belonging  to  economic  weaker  section  (EWS) 

including  slum-dwellers  and  low  income  groups  (LIGS).  Central  assistance  in  the 

range  of  Rs.  1  lakh  to  Rs.  2.30  lakh  per  beneficiary  would  be  provided  under 

different components of the National Urban Housing Mission in urban areas to build 

2  crore  new  houses.  The  Government  is  also  running  (JNNURM)  aimed  at 

addressing  the  challenges  of  urbanization.  Swacch  Bharat  Mission  has  become  a 

priority goal in the urban development sector. National Urban Housing and Habitat 

Policy primarily aims at providing affordable housing for all with special emphasis 

on the  vulnerable sections of  the society  such  as  SC, ST, OBCs  minorities and the 

urban poor. The total expenditure for MoHUPA for 2016-17 is Rs. 5.411 crore and  

94% is allocated for the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Urban (Rs. 5.075 crore). The 

emphasis has been given by the Government in the housing sector. The Government 

is  striving  hard  to  change  the  perception  of  the  sector.  The  National  Urban 

Livelihoods  Mission  (NULM)  aims  to  reduce  poverty  and  vulnerability  of  urban 

poor  households  by  enabling  them  to  access  gainful  self-employment  and  skill 

employment opportunities. Lack of capacity affects the implementation of projects. 

Building  'smart  cities'  in  an  urban  region  will  facilitate  advanced  and  overall 

infrastructure  development,  sustainable  real  estate,  communication  and  market 

viability. There is need to strengthen urban local bodies and enable them as the real 

third tier of governance to meet the needs and aspirations of people residing in the 

area. There should be some kind of a regulatory body in states in coordination with 

the Centre regarding implementation of projects.   

 

