 The jurisdiction of the Sikh 

Gurdwaras  Act  1925  which  earlier  was  confined  to  Punjab  State  only,  after  the 

division  of  Punjab  now  covers  Punjab,  Haryana,  Himachal  Pradesh  and 

Chandigarh  Union  Territory.    Although,  Haryana  has  enacted  the  Haryana  Sikh 

Gurdwaras Management Act, 2016 for Gurdwaras in Haryana the matter regarding 

Haryana  State  Legislatives  in  this  regard  is  still  subjudice  before  the  Supreme 

Court.  After the Punjab Re-organization Act, 1966 the SGPC Board has become 

an Inter-State Corporation and the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925 has been included in 

serial no. 45 of the Schedule of the Inter-State Corporation Act, 1957.  In exercise 

of  the  powers  conferred  by  Parliament  under  Section  72  of  the  Punjab  Re-

organisation Act, 1966 the Central Government vide its notification on 8th October, 

2003  removed  exemptions  to  Sahajdhari  Sikhs  to  enable  them  to  vote  in  the 

elections  to  the  members  of  the  Board  and  committee  constituted  under  the  Sikh 

Gurdwaras  Act,  1925.    However,  Punjab  and  Haryana  High  Court  quashed  the 

notification  vide  its  judgement  on  20  December,  2011  and  it  was  left  for  the 

appropriate and competent legislature to decide to amend or not to amend the said 

Act.    The  issue  of  denying  this  right  to  vote  to  Sahajdhari  Sikhs  through  the 

Notification at present is pending in the Supreme Court.  It may take a long time 

for a final decision.  Even if the High court's order regarding the quashing of the 

notification  is  upheld,  promulgation  of  law  on  this  issue  cannot  be  stopped.    The 

fact is that even the High Court's decision supports this.  Hence, this Bill has been 

presented to amend the provisos to section 49 and 92 of the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 

1925  retrospectively  with  effect  from  8th  October,  2003  for  removing  the 

exemption given to Sahajdhari Sikhs. 

 

THE  MINISTER  OF  FOOD  PROCESSING 

INDUSTRIES 

