  Since long, a demand was made for safeguarding the interests of the 

Backward Classes, solving their problems and empowering them.  I am very happy 

that as per the direction of the hon. Prime Minister we have come before the House 

to  give  constitutional  status  to  the  Backward  Classes  Commission.    So  far  the 

Backward  Classes  Commission  was  under  Article  340.    The  Commission 

constituted under the said Article was for the time being and issue based.  Special 

issues for investigation were sent to the Commission.  After which it gave its report 

to the Government of India and the Government normally took the decision on it.  

It  was  constituted  by  the  Government  of  India.  Hence,  the  demand  for 

constitutional status to it.  Now the salient feature would be that this Commission         

would be constituted by the President of India.  The President under Article 338 is 

empowered  to  constitute  the  Scheduled  Castes  Commission,  and  under  Article 

338-A  Scheduled  Tribes  Commission.    Now  a  new  Article  338-B  would  be 

inserted  after  which  the  President  would  be  empowered  to  constitute  this 

Commission.    The  previous  Commission  had  the  power  to  include  or  delete  any 

caste  from  OBC.    Now,  with  this  power,  this  Commission  too  would  have  rights 

similar to SC-ST commissions for reviewing the scheme or to make suggestions on 

other  matters.    Earlier,  this  Commission  did  not  have  the  authority  to  hear  the 

grievances.  The grievances were heard by the SC Commission.  The proposed new 

Commission  will  have  the  authority  to  hear  all  the  grievances  and  will  also  be 

authorised to resolve them.   Earlier, the report for the development of OBCs was 

referred  to  the  Government  of  India.    But  under  the  new  Commission,  the 

suggestions  for  the  development  of  OBCs  could  be  given  to  both  state 

governments and the Government of India.  The word OBC is not mentioned in our 

Constitution.    The  word,  the  socially  and  educationally  backward  has  been 

mentioned in the Article 16(4) and 15(4).  Therefore, the Commission constituted 

under this name will be able to carry the reservation for all times to come.  Under 

the Article 340, the word - socially and educationally backward - is already being 

used,  therefore,  there  is  no  need  for  any  apprehensions.    The  new  name  of  the 

proposed  commission  will  be  the  Commission  for  Backward  Classes  and  not  the 

Commission  for  socially  and  educationally  backward.    Many  people  were 

expressing  certain  apprehensions  and  therefore  there  is  a  need  to  allay  all  those 

unfounded fears.  At present, the selection of the Chairman and the Members was 

done  by  the  Prime  Minister  but  for  the  new  commission,  appointment  of  its 

Chairman,  Vice-chairman  and  three  Members  will  be  done  by  the  President  of 

India  under  the  warrants  of  precedent.    Till  now,  the  Commission  presented  its 

report to the Government of India and the Government took the decision.  But the 

proposed commission will submit its report to the President of India each year and 

the  President  of  India  will  refer  the  report  to  the  Government  of  India  for  taking 

action and then the Government will consider it and take action.  There is one more 

provision  in  the  new  commission.    Till  now,  the  recommendations  of  the 

Commission  were  ordinarily  binding  on  the  Government  but  the  Government 

could  not  accept  the  recommendations  also.  But  our  Government  felt  that  the 

Parliament  is  supreme.    If  a  state  government  sends  any  report  for  inclusion  or 

exclusion of certain castes belonging to SCs then the Government refers the report 

to the RGI and after receiving the report from the RGI the same is referred to the 

SC Commission.   If it is about STs then it is referred to the ST Commission and 

then  the  concerned  ministry  after  receiving  the  consent  from  the  Commission, 

drafts a Bill, presents in the Parliament and then Parliament passes it and finally it 

is implemented.  So far this procedure was not there and the Commission and the 

Government  of  India  would  take  decisions  together.    But  we  keeping  the 

Parliament at the top, the same procedure which has been adopted in terms of SC 

and ST Commissions, has also been laid down for this Commission.  As a result of 

which  the  interests  of  the  people  belonging  to  the  OBC  category  will  be 

safeguarded and appropriate decisions will be taken.  Thereafter, the ATR relating 

to this report along with other details will be presented in the Parliament.  Earlier, 

this provision was not there. The House after deliberations on the report may give 

directions or suggestions.  If there is any recommendation in the report in relation 

to the state then the report will be referred to the Governor of the State.   So far, 

such  a  provision  was  not  there.    The  Mandal  Commission  was  constituted  under 

the  Section  340  but  this  Commission  did  not  have  the  Constitutional  status.    The 

Government  has  decided  to  add  Sections  338(A)  and  (B)  in  order  to  give  this 

Commission  the  Constitutional  status. 

  The  Department  related  Standing 

Committee  on  Social  Justice  and  Empowerment  gave  its  recommendation  for  as 

many  as  eight  times  to  give  constitutional  status  to  the  Commission.    Besides, 

about  200  institutions  demanded  to  give  constitutional  status  to  the  Commission.  

The OBC association and the employees associations also demanded the same.  As 

many  as  18  hon.  Members  of  Parliament  sought  constitutional  status  for  this 

Commission  through  various  parliament  processes  like  377,  Question  Hour, 

Special Mentions and other such instruments.  We have endeavoured to fulfill their 

demand  as  this  has  been  a  popular  demand  for  the  last  25  years.    I  would  like to 

assure the entire House that the proposed Commission would successfully work to 

resolve  the  grievances  of  the  OBCs  and  will  prove  its  utility.    The  Mandal 

Commission  was  constituted  in  the  year  1979  and  it  presented  its  report  in  1980.  

But  nothing  moved  during  the  period  from  1980  to  1990.    Which  party's 

government  was  there  at  that  time?    Which  party's  governments  were  there  from 

1955 to 1990?  This is the testimony to the fact that the reports submitted for the 

constitution  of  the  Commission  and  to  safeguard  the  interest  of  the  people 

belonging to OBC were not acted upon and were rather consigned to the dustbin.  

During  these  three  years,  our  Government  has  taken  many  historic  decisions.  

During the AB Vajpayee Government, a separate ministry was constituted for SCs 

and  STs  along  with  two  separate  Commissions.    Thereafter,  in  the  wake  of  the 

verdict  of  the  hon.  Supreme  Court,  this  Commission  was  constituted.    This  time 

also, we had set in motion the process to set up this Commission but the assembly 

elections  for  five  states  were  announced  and  the  code  of  conduct  was  imposed.  

Now,  I  request  that  this  Bill  may  please  be  considered  and  passed  at  the  earliest 

possible so as to set up the Commission with constitutional status.    

 

