    I  fully  support  this  Bill  subject  to 

some  reservations.    It  is  well  known  that  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO) 

Agreement  encourages  that  all  member  countries  have  to  adopt  the  International 

Standards  and  move  towards  mutual  recognition  of  certification  systems  and  a 

uniform pattern has to be followed. The Bureau of Indian Standard takes  2-3 years 

even for getting the certification for a product. The two reasons for the delay are, 

first, there is rigid procedural formality in getting the certification and the second 

reason  for  the  delay  in  getting  the  certification  is  lack  of  infrastructure  facilities. 

We  have  to  rectify  it.  In  the  WTO  regime,  the  quality  of  a  product  is  the  most 

important ingredient in the new  market, especially in the neo-liberal market.  We 

have to meet and compete with the international standards.  We have to review the 

standards  which  we  are  following  in    India  for  standardization  as  well  as 

certification  so  as  to  protect  the  interests  of  consumers  because  the  interests  of 

consumers and the quality of products are mutually related things.  So, we have to 

review  it.    This  Bill  widens  the  scope  of  standardization.  Besides,  articles  and 

processes;  goods,  services  and  system  will  be  brought  under  the  regime  of 

standardization.  It  has  widened  the  network  of  compulsory  or  mandatory 

standardization of products and services. The mandatory certification will help the 

consumer  to  get  good  quality  products  as  well  as  it  prevents  the  import  of  sub-

standard  products  from  outside  countries,  especially  from  China.  It  is  my 

submission  that  scope  of  compulsory  certification  and  mandatory  standardization 

of products and processes should be enlarged.  We are having the Food Safety and 

Standard Authority of India (FSSAI).   The quality of food is being determined and 

assessed by it.  The Bureau of Indian Standard is also having the authority to assess 

the  quality  of  food  and  standardise  it. So,  the  multiple organization  are  doing the 

same  thing,  which  has  to  be  avoided.      I  would  like  to  seek  certain  clarifications 

from  the  Hon'ble  Minister.    Nowhere  in  the  provisions  of  the  Bill  is  a  mention 

about  the  metal.  Metal  articles  are  there,  but  the  purity  of  the  metal  is  not  

mentioned in any of the provisions.  My second reservation is about the definition 

of  precious  metals.    Clause  2(26)  says:  ''  'precious  metal'  means  gold,  silver, 

platinum and palladium.'' Why is diamond not included here ? Though diamond is 

not a metal, but even then, I would like to know whether it can also be included. 

My  third  clarification  which  I  am  seeking  from  the  Minister  is  about  clause 

10(2)(c)  of  Chapter  III  which  says  that  the  Bureau  of  Indian  Standards  may 

recognize  or  accredit  any  institution  in  India  or  outside  which  is  engaged  in 

standardization.    I  fully  oppose  this  provision.  How  can  an  outside  agency 

determine and assess the standard of  a product which is being manufactured in our 

country? 

 

