  I  am  thankful  to  all 

Members who have spoken on this important Bill.  One hon. Member made out a 

point that Parliament has no jurisdiction to pass this Bill.  The Bill is meant only 

for  contract and transfer of title.   The land  and other  related  issues  are  left  to  the 

local bodies.  The Law Department as well as the Attorney General has opined that 

the Parliament has jurisdiction because it is a concurrent subject.  So, keeping that 

in mind only we brought this Bill.  But the main question is about the genuineness, 

the promptness and the timeliness of the house delivery.  This is the major concern 

of  the  people.    The  earlier  Government  has  brought  a  Bill  in  2013.    But  in  2011 

itself the debate was started, and from 2011 to 2016, for five full years the country 

was debating this issue.  The media was also debating this issue.  It will be historic 

moment in the history of the country because we are fulfilling the aspirations of the 

people by giving them the needed protection and also by giving credibility to the 

realty  sector.   Certain  people have  expressed  certain  concerns,  for  example, what 

will  happen  to  the  State  Bill.    The  Central  legislation  overrides  the  State 

legislation.   That is the constitutional position.  A point made was why we should 

confine it to 500 square metres and eight apartments and why we should not reduce 

it  down.    I  have  left  it  to  the  discretion  of  the  States,  depending  on  the  local 

situation.  I have given the option to the States to make legislation.  I may politely 

remind  the  hon.  Members,  initially,  when  the  Bill  came  in  2011,  it  was  4,000 

square metres and the number of apartments was not notified.  From 4,000 square 

metres, we have brought it down to 500 square metres.  But it is not so, the rate of 

interest  payable  by  consumer  and  payable  by  builder  varies.    As  per  clause  2(a), 

the  rate  of  interest  payable  by  either  party  will  be  the  same.    So,  there  is  no 

discrimination  whatsoever.    There  is  no  question  of  any  delay  on  our  side.  

Moreover, we have tried to hasten the process after wider consultation.  We are not 

against  the  builders.    We  want  builders  also  to  be  partners  to  build  strong  and 

stable India.  I am willing to discuss with the builders, if they have any problem.  

The rule says that if a Member has any interest, he or she should declare it before 

he  speaks  in  the  House.    But  I  do  not  want  to  invoke  the  rule.    A  concern  was 

expressed  by  the  hon.  Member  from  Maharashtra  vis-à-vis  their  legislation  and 

also  on  other  issues.    I  am  assuring  them  that  we  will  consider  them  during  the 

making of the rules.  With regard to impact of this on property prices.  I would say 

that  we  would  get  more  investment;  we  would  get  early  clearances  and  the 

property  prices  would  come  down.    The  only  purpose  of  this  Bill  is  that  what  a 

developer is promising through an advertisement, he should  fulfill it.  Through this 

House  I  seek  the  cooperation  of  all  states  because  this  law  will  be  really 

meaningful if the States come forward and then make those regulations and put the 

responsibility on the officers concerned.  I am not trying to shift the responsibility 

from the Central Government to the State Governments.  With regard to the matter 

raised by a member that states should be given powers to appoint more authorities, 

I  would  say  that  there  should  not  be  dual  authorities.  At  the  same  time,  certain 

powers are delegated to the States.  It is provided in clause 20.  Then there is the 

point  of  structural  defects.    Now  the  responsibility  of  rectification  of  structural 

defects  lies  with  the  builder,  promoter,  and  developer  for  a  period  of  five  years.  

Article  2  (k)  provides  for  an  exhaustive  definition  for  carpet  area.    Clause  4(2) 

provides that the promoter shall disclose at the time of  making an application for 

registration of the project with the regulatory authority regarding the number, type 

and the carpet area of the apartments for sale in the project.  For existing projects, a 

window of three months from the date of notification has been given under Clause 

3  for  making  an  application  to  the  authority  and  to  disclose  the  same.    Future 

disclosure of  carpet area  would  not  affect  the past sales  under the  existing or on-

going projects.  With regard to Government bodies, it has been brought within the 

purview of the Act.  The Government bodies are collecting money and they are not 

constructing  houses  in  time.    Moreover,  this  Bill  will  reinforce  the  trust  and 

promote sales.  The day this Act is notified, there will be a boom in the real estate 

sector and people will purchase houses with more confidence.  Private people will 

come and invest more. With regard to Government formulating a National Urban 

Rental Housing Policy, the Government is in the process of developing this policy 

and  a  model  tenancy  law  which  will  encourage  house  owners  to  let  out  vacant 

houses on rent. So, the Government has shown its commitment, its caliber.  So, I 

am  happy  that  our  friends  from  the  other  side,  from  all  sides  are  supporting  us.  

The  Bill  cuts  across  all  sections  particularly  the  middle  income  group  consumers 

have  been  facing  problems  and  harassment.    Phase-wise  registration  is  also 

provided  in  the  Bill.   A  project  could  be declared  and  executed  in  phases  but  for 

every  phase  these  provisions  will  apply;  70  per  cent  amount  is  the  criteria 

applicable for each phase separately.  The Bill provides for five years' liability for 

structural  defects, not  for other defects.  The  Bill  will  apply  uniformly  across the 

country.    The  need  is  to  ensure  timely  completion  of  projects.    The  definition  of 

'allottee'  is  very  exhaustive  and  I  have  already  explained  it.    Discrimination  is 

another issue.  The Constitution is already taking care of it. That is why I have not 

made  any  separate  mention  about  this.    Under  this  Bill,  promoters  cannot  sell 

without registration of the project to the authority.  I appeal to all the home buyers 

across  the  country  not  to  give  any  advance  before  registration  of  the  project.    

Again, Central Bill will override the State Bill.  That is the constitutional position.  

I  would  like  to  say  that this  Bill  will cover  both  residential  and  commercial  also.  

Moreover,  standards  are  provided  in  3(2)  for  promotional  measures.    Central 

Advisory  Council  is  being  proposed  for  advising  and  improvement  also.  

Practically, to the extent possible, I have tried to cover all the suggestions given by 

the  hon.  Members.    I  am  sure  that  this  Bill  will  live  up  to  the  expectations  and 

aspirations of the people. 

 

 

The Bill was passed. 

