  This  Bill  is  an  important 

step in strengthening the immense potential of our country in such a export orient 

and  employment  oriented  sector  having  immense  potential  across  the  world  with 

the annual market as approximately 8 lakh crore rupees.  Seven such institutes had 

been  functioning  across  the  country  for  almost  last  two  decades.  These  institutes 

are  providing  employment  oriented  education  to  our  youths  in  the  leather  and 

leather products manufacturing sector.  These institutes are not confined to shoes 

only,  these  institutes  have  imparted  training  to  thousands  and  thousands  of 

students in this sector associated with fashion and lifestyle during the last 20 years.  

One  lakh  forty  five  thousand  students  have  got  education  with  the  curriculum 

developed  by  these  institutes  through  the    industry  sponsored  programme  during 

the last two years.  I applaud the decision taken by the hon'ble Minister to start five 

more  new  institutes  in  this  sector,  which  will  become  functional  during  2017.  

Police personnel of 12 states use the shoes developed by these institutes.  Pilots of 

Indian  Air  Force  are  also  using  the  shoes  designed  and  manufactured  by  these 

institutes.    MTNL,  Electricity  Boards  are  also  procuring  these  shoes  for  their 

employees.  The  leather  industry,  leather  and  shoes  industry  in  our  country  is 

definitely an employment oriented industry employing 25 lakh people.  I welcome 

the decision of giving such important institutes the status of Institutes of National 

Importance  through  this  Bill.    Leather  industry  is  one  of  the  ten  industries 

identified  as  having  the  maximum  export  potential  in  this  country.    Our  share  of 

export  is  only  2.2  per  cent  in  this  126  billion  US  dollar  market.  This  sector  has 

immense potential across the world.  If we have to tap these potential and meet our 

future requirements, we would have to work much faster in this sector.  This Bill 

will  solve  the  problem  being  faced  by  these  institutes  and  students  enrolled  in 

these  institutes  due  to  absence  of  a  regulatory  institute.    The  Bill  contains 

provision  for  the  creation  of  Governing  Council  incorporating  the  needs  of  such 

'Centre  of  Excellence'  of  international  standard  and  keeping  in  view  the  inputs 

required  for  the  industry  and  the  suggestion  required  from  the  experts  in  this 

sector.  Our hon'ble Prime Minister's vision is that we should carry out works with 

Zero Defect and Zero Effect.  Under the Zero Defect motto, we should design such 

products  which  should  be  identified  as  best  products  in  the  country  as  well  as 

across the world. We should promote our industrial growth in such a manner that it 

causes no harm to our environment i.e. having Zero Effect on environment.   

 

