  I  understand  that  the 

Caste  Census  has  been  submitted  to  the  Government  but  unfortunately  it  has  not 

been released.  I would request the Government to release the Caste Census at the 

earliest.    My  appeal  to  the  Government  is  that  it  should  take  stringent  action 

against  those  erring  officials  who  take  little  or  no  interest  in  ensuring  that 

vacancies reserved for OBC are duly filled.  After setting up of this Commission, 

the power of the States is intended to be withdrawn in respect of inclusion of castes 

in the Backward Class List.  My considered view is that the consent of the States is 

to be taken on this vital issue.  There is an imperative need to include at least one 

lady  Member  on  the  Commission.    Reservation  must  be  made  for  OBCs  to  the 

higher judiciary as also to higher positions in the PSUs.  The Government should 

stipulate  a  time  frame  for  filling  in  the  vacancies  reserved  for  OBCs  in  various 

departments and undertakings.  A time frame is to be fixed for filling vacancies in 

the Commission arising due to reasons like retirement, death, etc. 

 

*DR.  PRITAM  GOPINATH  MUNDE:  It  is  a  very  important  issue  and 

hence  I  would  like  to  request  you  to  kindly  allow  me  to  speak  and  give  enough 

time.  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  thank  our  Hon.  Prime  Minister  Narendra  Modi 

and Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Shri Thanwarchand Gehlotji million 

times for this historic decision of granting the constitutional status to the National 

Commission  for  OBCs.  My  father  and  other  OBC  leaders  fought  for  the  issue 

                                                           
* Original in Marathi. 

related  to  the  OBCs  relentlessly  throughout  their  lives  and  it  is  because  of  them 

that  today  Government  is  taking  this  historic  decision.  Today,  we  have  been 

discussing the pros and cons of the possible impact of this decision. Some people 

have apprehensions that it would not be beneficial for our federal structure and the 

states' rights would get affected. But I don't think so, on the contrary, we can see 

that  in  some  states,  some  castes  and  identified  as  OBCs  but  the  same  castes  are 

notified  as  SCs  /  STs  in  some  other  states.  The  Kalelkar  Committee  and  Mandal 

Commission  were  the  foundation  stones  for  granting  constitutional  status  to  the 

NCBC,  we  should  also  go  for  caste  based  census.  If  we  do  not  know  about  the 

exact figures and data. Reservation for OBCs in not a mercy but it is our right. So 

it is requested to collect the necessary data regarding OBCs. At last, I would like to 

congratulate  the  thank  Government  of  Maharashtra  for  creating  a  special  OBC 

department for the development and upliftment of OBCs.  

 

