 This is a very important Bill.  I support 

the  Bill  on  behalf  of  Telugu  Desam  Party.    This  Bill  extends  its  jurisdiction  to 

Jammu  and  Kashmir  for  collection  of  statistics  pertaining  to  different  subjects 

under the  Union  List  or  Concurrent  List  of  the  Constitution.  Under this  Bill, the 

Central  Government  or  a  state  Government  or  a  Union  Territory  administration 

shall designate one of its officers as a nodal officer for the purpose of supervision 

of activities related to collection of statistics.  One positive aspect I would like to 

appreciate  is  that  the  Bill  provides  security  for  such  information  being  used  only 

for statistical purposes and no such information provided can be used as evidence 

for prosecution.   

 

DR.  A  SAMPATH:  The  Collection  of  Statistics  (Amendment)  Bill,  2017 

has  one  part  connected  with  the  other  States  of  India;  and  the  other  part  is  for 

Jammu  and  Kashmir.    The  Government  should  come  clean  with  the  socio-

economic data of 2011 Census.  In a nation where we are all bound to know what 

is happening, we are in oblivion of the 2011 Census.  What was the Caste Census 

six years back has not been revealed even in this House.  Similar is the case with 

regard to Below Poverty Line figure.  I genuinely believe that these things are for 

the benefit and welfare of the people.  Our statistics should be reliable.  Estimates 

with  regard  to  poverty  lines  by  various  agencies  differ  but  the  poverty  remains.  

We  should  make  legislation  for  a  universal  basic  income.    I  would  like  to  know 

whether the below poverty line statistics is arrived on the basis of the income of the 

family,  per  capita  income,  per  capita  consumption  or  calorie  consumption  per 

person per day.  With regard to the Pravasi Suraksha Yojana, I would like to know 

why  the  Government  has  decided  to  stop  that  welfare  scheme.    It  was  the  only 

welfare scheme where the immigration clearance was required.  This is a clear-cut 

legislation and I support it.   

 

