 An hon. Member has raised an issue relating to tax on agriculture.   I would 

like  to  clarify  that  the  Central  Government  does  not  have  any  constitutional 

authority to impose tax on agriculture.  This comes under the authority of the State 

Governments.  This does not come under the authority of Central Government and 

it is also beyond our legislative competence.  Under section 132(A), reasons have 

to be recorded in the order before carrying out a search against any individual.   I 

believe  that  no  member  of  this  august  House  would  want  that  the  tax  evaders 

should be supported.  Under the existing procedure, the copy of the order detailing 

the reasons had to be given to the individual against whom search is to be carried 

out  but  because  of  this  the  sources  of  information  were  drying  up.    A  small 

amendment has been made to the effect that a court can see such a document but 

this  document  will  not  be  given  to  any  other  person.    Therefore,  the  amendment 

under  Section  132  (A)  has  been  carried  out  for  this  purpose.    One  hon.  Member 

said that after demonetization,  tax collection has come down and he also presented 

some data.  But by the end of March 31st this year, the estimated tax collection is 

likely  to  be  Rs.17  lakh  crore  in  place of  estimated  Rs.16 lakh  25  thousand  crore.  

Next year the government is fixing the target of R. 19 lakh 5 thousand crores.  Last 

year,  this  House  passed  the  Constitution  Amendment  Bill  relating  to  GST.    Till 

now,  as  many  as  12  meetings  of  GST  Council  has  been  held  and  consensus 

decisions  have been taken on  all  the  contentious  issues  in  the Council.   Our  hon. 

Prime  Minister  had  desired  that  all  efforts  should  be  made  to  take  consensus 

decision  in  a  democratic  manner  through  discussion  instead  of  taking  decisions 

through  vote.    Tamil  Nadu,  West  Bengal  and  Karnataka's  role  was  very  positive.  

The  Council  has  to  frame  five  laws,  out  of  which  four  laws  with  amendments 

would  be  passed  by  Parliament.    Another  law  needs  to  be  passed  by  all  the 

Legislative  Assemblies.    All  the  five  laws  were  unanimously  passed  by  the  GST 

Council which would be placed before the  Parliament in the coming days.  We are 

making  all  efforts  to  implement  it  from  1st  July.    Regarding  demonetization  the 

people's verdict has come before you.  In the most renowned economic newspaper, 

'Financial Times', Martin Wolf writes that even in the short run there will also be 

benefits.    The  analysis  suggest  that  as  much  as  two  percent  of  GDP  was  held  in 

notes  reflecting  black  economic  activities.    Over  all,  there  is  a  transfer  of  wealth 

from criminals to the Government.  Let us see what the Prime Minister dares to do 

next.    CBDT  and  Taxation  Department  has  performed  data  mining.    18  Lakh  e-

mails  and  SMS  have  been  sent  -  not  tax  notice  -    seeking  information  regarding 

deposits which do not match the depositors' income.  Those who failed to provide 

explanations  would  face  inquiry  as  per  Income  Tax  Act.    In  a  major  decision  we 

have  reduced  the  taxation  by  5  per  cent  to  25  per  cent  regarding  companies  with 

turnover  of  Rs.  50  crore.    We  have  also  made  efforts  to  bring  small  tax  payers 

within  the  tax  net  by  reducing  the  tax  rates  for  them.    Cash  transactions  limit 

through an amendment would be made Rs. 2 lakh.  All political parties should give 

suggestions 

to  clean 

the  electoral  funding  system. 

  Businessesmen  and 

professionals with turnover upto Rs. 2 crores need not maintain books of account if 

they work in cash in which case their income would be presumed to be 8 per cent.  

And if cheque is used presumptive income would be 6 per cent.  At present there 

are  about  40  tribunals  headed  by  judges  and  other  members.    We  have  framed 

common  service  conditions  for  them  to  reduce  government  expenditure  and 

increase efficiency.  Aadhaar number would reduce tax evasion and tax frauds.  

The Bill as amended was passed. 

 

