  Our  country 

consists  of  various  communities  and  castes  and  there  was  a  great  need  to  bring 

about equity, harmony and equality among them for which efforts were also made.  

However, this effort needs to be expedited even now.  Our thinking has started to 

be confined to ourselves, our family and our community instead of  going for the 

uplift  of  all.    We  need  to  widen  our  thinking.    There  might  be  truth  in  what  the 

opposition leader said that addition and deletion of castes is thought over at present 

on the basis of politics and pressure.  There is a need to make such an atmosphere 

that such a thing is not being done under any political or any other type of pressure 

keeping  in  view  some  profit  or  loss  and  such  proposals  should  be  made  on  the 

basis of meting out justice to all the castes and communities and the poor.  Effort 

has been made to make the law stringent in order to provide justice and economic 

assistance  to  the  family  of  the  victim  in  case  injustice,  atrocity  and  criminal 

incidents  take  place  against  the  people  belonging  to  the  SC  category.    The 

Government  has  formulated  various  types  of  schemes  for  their  social,  economic, 

educational  and  political  empowerment    and  we  are  implemented  these  schemes.  

This  Government  of  the  BJP,  the  NDA  is  in  favour  and  will  remain  in  favour  of 

reservation  which  has  been  provided  in  the  Constitution  till  the  inequalities 

continue  on  the  basis  of  which  these  have  been  provided  for.    We  endeavour  to 

ensure  quality  education  to  the  people  of  these  communities  also.    We  provide 

scholarship for it.  We give the facility of coaching as well.  If someone wishes to 

go abroad for studies, we provide such facilities to him/her also.  Our government 

has taken a decision that if any NGO or social organization, registered institutions 

organize  the  birth  or  death  anniversary  of  Baba  Saheb  Ambedkar,  Jyotiba  Phule, 

Ravidas,  Kabirdas  etc.,  an  assistance  of  upto  5  lakh  will  be  provided.    Dr. 

Ambedkar Saheb had made efforts to kindle the sense of patriotism and we too are 

trying  to  create  the  same  ambience  for  the  emergence  of  a  sense  of  patriotism.  

Hon.  Prime  Minister  asked  me  to  declare  the  places  of  respect  related  to 

Ambedkarji a place of pilgrimage.  Acting upon the suggestions of the hon. Prime 

Minister  we  converted  the  name  of  his  birth  place,  Mau,  in  Indore  district,  into 

Ambedkar  Nagar.      At  the  same  time,  his  birth  place  was  declared  as  a  place  of 

pilgrimage.    He  was  initiated  in  Nagpur  and  at  that  place  of  his  initiation  a 

committee had constructed a monument.  Now, the Government of Maharashtra is 

working out an action plan to expand the land of initiation with about an outlay of 

Rs.275    crore.    26  Alipur  road,  a  place  where  Ambedkarji  breathed  his  last  was 

also  declared  to  be  a  national  memorial  and  a  magnificent  monument  has  been 

decided to be built there.  One more magnificent monument has been decided to be 

built with the expenditure of about Rs.350 crore at  Chaitya Bhumi where the last 

rituals  of  Ambedkar  Saheb  was  performed.    It  has  been  decided  to  set  up  the 

Ambedkar International Study Center with the cost of Rs.192 crore at 15 Janapath 

so that people may be able to understand his ideology.  Most of the people were of 

the  opinion  that  Ambedkarji  was  not  a  patriot  but  I  would  like  to  assert  he  was 

patriot because he studied in Britain and America and in addition to it he had more 

than 24  degrees  of higher  education.   He could have  opted  to get  a  job there  and 

live a luxurious life with his family but he came back to India with a resolution to 

sort  out  the  problems  of  inequality  among  people  and  made  efforts  in  this 

direction.  He was of the opinion that the solution to this problem does not lie in 

the creation of separate things.  Simultaneously, he believes that the temple of God 

and the natural ponds are meant for everybody and everybody is entitled to avail of 

the  benefits  of  all  these  things.      In  fact,  he  has  taken  the  sense  of  'Vasudev 

Kutumbkam' in the right spirit and tried to create an ambience on that ground.  As 

per  as  the  problem  of  Dhankar  caste  is  concerned,  no  proposal  to  this  effect  has 

been received from the State Government.  Similarly, I would like to  say to those 

who  have  raised  the  issue  of  inclusion  of  a  caste  into  the  List  that  no  proposals 

have  been  received  from  their  respective  states  in  this  respect.    Everybody  wants 

that the percentage of reservation be raised but we cannot provide reservation more 

than 50 per cent as there is a ruling of the Supreme Court in this regard.  About the 

Sub-Plan and the rules and regulations related thereto, I can say this much that no 

Government  has  ever  released  more  than  15  per  cent  fund.    The  budgetary 

provision for Sub-Plan has never exceeded from 9 to 9.5 per cent during the UPA 

regime.    Now,  this  is  a  matter  of  happiness  that  more  than  Rs.52  thousand  crore 

has been given under this plan which shows an increase of 30 per cent as compared 

to the previous time.  Our Prime Minister has started to provide 42 per cent of fund 

to  the  states  which  was  earlier  32  per  cent  in  order  to  strengthen  the  federal 

structure  and  to  shore  up  the  economic  condition  of  the  states.    Moreover,  5  per 

cent more fund has been given to the urban bodies and 2 per cent for pachayati raj 

system  and  also  2  per  cent  more  as  an  expenditure  to  be  incurred  on  the 

implementation of these schemes.  We provide overseas scholarship to the students 

going  abroad  for  studies.    In  addition,  we  provide  fund  under  the  fellowship 

scheme to the students aspiring to get any special degree or Ph.D.  We have started 

Direct  Benefit  Transfer  Scheme  which  plugged  the  leakage.    After  all,  we  have 

formulated  a  number  of  schemes  in  order  to  usher  in  overall  development.    I  am 

happy that we have been successful in protecting the interests of Scheduled Castes 

and Scheduled Tribes.  We will try to create an atmosphere of equality, harmony 

and  dialogue.      The  cooperation  of  all  of  you  is  also  solicited  in  realizing  these 

objectives.    We  are  allocating  fund  for  SC  Sub-Plan  according  to  the  rules  and 

regulations  made  therefore  by  the  previous  Government.    We  have  given  three 

times more funds.  An hon. Member has quoted Karnataka as an example, in this 

respect I would like to say that there are a number of states like Madhya Pradesh, 

Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh etc.  which provide more budgetary allocation for 

the  welfare  of  these  classes  as  compared  to  that  of  Karnataka.    The  erstwhile 

Government  declared  Aligarh  Muslim  University  and  Jamiya  Miliya  Islamiya 

University  as  minority  educational  institutions  despite  their  being  in  the  list  of 

Central  Universities.    As  a  result,  the  students  from  Scheduled  Castes  and 

Scheduled Tribes community were deprived of the benefit of reservation.  I would 

like to know from the Congress party if it will support the initiatives to be taken to 

restore  the  facility  of  reservation  to  the  students  of  Scheduled  Castes  and 

Scheduled Tribes in both of these universities.  

The Bill was passed. 

 

