 Ordinarily civil suits involving 

value  of  Rs.20  lakh  and  above  some  under  the  original  civil  jurisdiction  of  the 

High Court of Delhi.  This has been increasing the workload of Delhi High Court 

considerably.  Poor people seeking justice had to face great difficulties every time.  

As this Bill seeks enhancement of pecuniary jurisdiction, this will help them in a 

big way.  After passing of this Bill, the pecuniary jurisdiction of Delhi High Court 

will see a rise in the value of cases handled there.  Cases pertaining to lesser value 

will  henceforth  be  handled  by  the  District  Courts  and  the  City  Civil  Courts.    In 

Tamil  Nadu,  judiciary  is  getting  proper  support  from  our  Government.  Be  it 

providing  infrastructure  facility  or  be  it  providing  properly  recruited  presiding 

officers to administer justice.  Tamil Nadu is way ahead.  I would like to point out 

that no funds were released for the State of Tamil Nadu in the years 2010-11 and 

2011-12  for  enhancing  judicial  infrastructure  under  the  Centrally  Sponsored 

Scheme.  I want to draw the attention of the hon. Law Minister to take necessary 

steps  to  release  sufficient  funds  for  still  better  functioning  of  Judiciary  in  Tamil 

Nadu.  

 

SHRI  TATHAGATA  SATPATHY:  The  Delhi  High  Court  (Amendment) 

Bill, 2015 is a very simple Bill.  This is supposedly intended to lighten the burden 

on the High Court of Delhi.  It is also interesting to note that when judiciary in all 

the States is heavily laden with disputes and long-lasting litigations.  Delhi has had 

the  good  fortune  that  the  Central  Government  has  constituted  no  less  than  14 

Subordinate  Courts  to  lighten  the  load  of  the  High  Court  and  I  hope  that  the 

Government  will  also  be  considerate  in  setting  up  more  Courts.    In  Odisha,  we 

have a situation where we can set up more Courts whereby our judiciary will also 

be  lightened  of  the  load.    The  aim  of  a  civilized  society  is  that  justice  should  be 

meted out as quickly as possible.  There was a revision like this in 2003.  I am not 

clear  whether  it  is  actually  required  or  the  Government  can  devolve  the  power 

whereby  the  concerned  High  Court  itself  can  take  a  decision  may  be  in 

consultation with the Government, raise its own financial pecuniary bottom up and 

bring it higher, and pass on the burden to lower courts.  That is something, which 

the  Government  can  think  about.    We  have  certain  issues.    According  to  the  last 

estimate,  we  have  more  than  three  crore  cases  pending  in  different  courts  across 

the  country.  Has  there  been  an  positive  move  to  ensure  that  this  figure  comes 

down?  I  would  like  to  know  from  the  hon.  Minister  whether  the  Government  is 

thinking  of  bringing  a  system  of  taking  punitive  action  on  the  false  and  flimsy 

cases that are filed by people.  My last suggestion would be that a system has to be 

worked  out  whereby  the  proceedings  in  cases  must  take  place  only  when  the 

applicant or the litigant, the one who has filed the cases, or the  prosecution if it is 

compelled  to  supply  all  relevant  papers  at  all  different  stages,  free  of  cost, to  the 

accused or to the other side.  That way, it would help people and would stop people 

from going to courts immediately at the drop of a hat.   

 

