  Though  the  introductory 

statement  made  by  the  hon.  Finance  Minister  about  the  three  tax  proposals  look 

brief.    However,  it  can  easily  qualify  to  be  one  of  the  most  glaring  example  of 

policy  paralysis  suffered  by  the  UPA  Government.    When  the  process  of 

disinvestment  was  begun  VSNL  had  a  land  bank  of  approximately  1200  acre.  

Before the proposal for disinvestment could took off, the DOT had conceded that 

they required land to the extent of 400-500 acre and as has been told by the hon. 

Finance Minister 771 acres land remained surplus which was meant to be used by 

the  Government  of  India.    The  value  of  this  land  is  approximately  Rs.6156  crore 

and this land is situated in Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.  After a gap of 14 

years since the year 2002, our Government has taken a very good decision. As the 

transaction  attracts  capital  gain  tax  which  would  be  to  the  tune  of  Rs.2500  to 

Rs.3000  crore,  it    can  render  the  entire  project  unviable  for  the  Government  of 

India.    That  is  why  the  hon.  Finance  has  moved  this  provision  by  making  an 

amendment  in  Section  19(aa).    The  Government  will  also  be  able  to  provide 

housing  facilities  to  the  Government  employees  at  prime  locations.    The  second 

amendment  of  the  Government  is  related  to  80(j)(a).    the  Cabinet  had  taken  a 

decision on 22 June, 2016 to provide special package for the textile sector in order 

to  provide  employment  opportunities  to  the  ten  million  people  during  the  next 

three years.  The garment export from India is mainly restricted to summer apparel.  

The output in this sector is reduced to a great extent between October and March 

due  to  falling  demand.    The  amendment  would  make  it  possible  to  provide 

incentive to the employers even when the number of job creating days reduce from 

240  to  150  resulting  in  income  tax  benefit  to  them.    As  the  hon.  Members  are 

aware, we are promoting exports through various schemes.  Hon. Prime Minister, 

hon. Finance Minister  and  the  entire  Cabinet have strived hard  for  the  welfare of 

villages, poor and farmers and I, on behalf of my party, welcome this amendment.  

The  third  amendment  relates to  the  marble  sector.   Marble is  found  in  Rajasthan, 

Andhra  Pradesh  and  Tamil  Nadu.    There  was  a  time  when  we  used  to  export 

marble  to  China  but  today  low  quality  and  cheap  marble  is  being  sold  in  our 

country as it is being dumped.  This is the reason that the Government propose to 

increase  the  cap  from  10  per  cent  to  40  per  cent.  The  Government  of  India  has 

done  a  wonderful  job  for  saving  the  domestic  industry,  the  workers  employed  in 

the  industry  and  increasing  the  exports.    These  three  make  for  far  reaching 

legislations. I would like to commend the Government of India for this.   

 

