  Urban  poverty  in  India  is  over  25  percent  .  At  the 

national  level,  rural  poverty  remains  higher  than  urban  poverty,  but  the  gap  is 

closing. It is the need of the hour to expedite the steps to reduce the poverty level in 

the country by 2030. The urban poverty poses major challenges for housing, water, 

sanitation,  health,  education,  social  security,  livelihoods  and  the  special  needs  of 

vulnerable  groups  such  as  women,  children  and  the  aging.  So,  there  is  an  urgent 

need to focus on the systemic changes that the needed to address those problems to 

help the poor lead a comfortable living. As far as the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana 

is  concerned,  the  government  should  take  concrete  steps  to  create  necessary 

legislative frame work for providing housing to all needy people in the country and 

ensure  that  the  provisions  of  the  Real  Estate  Regulation  Act  are  implemented 

effectively to achieve the objectives of the Act. As the budgetary allocation made for 

the  Housing  and  Urban  Poverty  Alleviation  Ministry  for  the  year  2016-17  is  very 

inadequate,  I  urge  upon  the  Government  to  earmark  sufficient  fund  to  make  the 

scheme successfully implemented in the country.  

 

DR.  RATNA    DE  (NAG):  Poverty  level  particularly  in  the  urban  areas  are 

increasing  manifold  due  to  migration  to  cities  due  to  unemployment,  drought, 

shortage  of  water  etc.  We  have  different  industries.  Beedi  and  mine  workers  are 

large  in  number.  Would  the  hon.  Minister  highlight  as  to  what  he  is  thinking  of 

doing in extending subsidy for beedi and mine workers for housing. What provision 

were  made  in  the  Ministry  to  address  to  the  problems  of  housing  for  the 

economically weaker sections? The focus should be to ensure providing basic civic 

amenities to urban poor. We have people living in abject poverty. Hon'ble Minister 

should  formulate  an  innovation  schemes  to  address  the  problems  of  housing  or 

dwelling units to these people who live on the streets literally or in the open spaces 

of  the  cities  or  under  the  sky.  We  have  seen  'garibi  hatao'  decades  back.  Earlier 

governments  too  promised  housing  for  all.  I  hope  and  pray  that  this  Government 

would take all these schemes and promises seriously are fulfils each one of them.  

 

