  In  our  country  it  has  become  a 

common  trend  to  buy  properties,  make  transactions,  dabble  in  shares,  purchase 

vehicle through benami transactions.  In some of the cases, property is immediately 

transferred  by  a  person  in  the  name  of  any  member  of  his  family.    It  is  only  to 

hoodwink the government.  I would like to compliment the government that it has 

endeavour  for  making  this  Bill  more  stringent  by  bringing  in  comprehensive 

amendments  in  the  Benami  Transactions  (Prohibition)  Act,  1988.    Most  of  the 

black  money  is  invested  in  the  real  estate  sector.    I  would  like  to  bring  to  the 

cognizance  of  the  government    that  there  is  a  provision  in  this  Bill  that  right  to 

confiscate  any  type  of  property  will  vest  with  the  Central  Government  whereas 

land  and  property  are  state  subjects.    So,  there  is  a  need  to  rope  in  the  State 

Governments  in  this  whole  process.    No  time  limit  has  been  provided  regarding 

filing of appeal by any person in appellate tribunals.  There should be atleast three 

months window for approaching the High Court in this regard.  I do not feel that 

mere by making provisions  for six months jail and 25 per cent penalty will make 

this  Act  stringent.    Government  should  have  absolute  rights  over  confiscated 

property.    Inquiry  should  also  be  made  with  regard  to  the  high  officials  and  the 

subordinate staff who have attained superannuation.   

 

SHRI  C.  N.  JAYADEVAN:  The  Benami  Transactions  (Prohibition) 

Amendment Bill, 2015 has been brought by making comprehensive amendments to 

the  Benami  Transactions  (Prohibition)  Act,  1988  and  to  deal  with  benami 

transactions effectively.  We know that many of the politicians and bureaucrats in 

the  country  are  amassing  property  worth  more  than  their  legal  income  in  benami 

names.    I  think,  this  Bill  will  help  to  check  this  menace  to  a  great  extent  if 

implemented  properly.    The  Committee  had  also  noted  that  benami  transactions 

could  be  pre-empted  and  eliminated  by  digitalization  of  land  records.    The 

Committee  stated  that  since  land  is  a  State  subject  under  the  Constitution,  rights 

over confiscated properties should vest with the State Governments instead of the 

Central Government.  So, I would like to know what is the Government's reaction 

to these issues.   

 

SHRI C.K. SANGMA: The first point that I would like to say is that unless 

and until there is proper coordination between the Centre and the State, it  will be 

difficult for this Act to be actually implemented at the grass root level.  Second, we 

are  a  Sixth  Schedule  area.    Being  a  Sixth  Schedule  area,  the  land  belongs  to  the 

clan; the land belongs to the headman.  The land does not belong to any individual.  

In this particular Act, there is no provision to allow the clan to be exempted from 

this law.  I think in North East, most of the tribals are exempted from income tax.  

It is a wonderful scenario for anybody who wants to do benami.  Therefore, these 

kinds  of  situations  need  to  be  considered  when  we  pass  this  Bill.    Another 

important  issue  is  that  we  have  porous  borders  with  Bangladesh.    A  lot  of 

counterfeit  money  is  coming  in.    All  I  am  saying  is  that  the  Central  Government 

must respect the sentiments of the tribal people and, at the same time, ensure that 

the Act is implemented in true spirit.  The last point which I would like to mention 

is that  the  Government  must  make  some  provisions to ensure that the powers  are 

not misutilized under this Act.  

 

