  This Government has given a broad base 

for  agriculture  and  has  also  opened  vast  avenues  for  the  farmers.    Hon.  Prime 

Minister of the country has declared that the income of farmers has to be doubled.  

The  Government  has  also  laid  down  a  road  map  to  realize  this  objective.    This 

Government  has  also  set  up  many  soil  testing  labs  to  facilitate  the  farmers.    The 

Government  intends  to  set  up  one  thousand  such  labs  in  the  times  to  come.    The 

Madhya Pradesh Government under the able leadership of hon. Chief Minister has 

formulated a comprehensive scheme first time in the country to double the income 

of farmers.  Madhya Pradesh Government has also disbursed Rs.4400 crore to the 

farmers under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Bima Yojana which is the largest amount in 

the country.  I believe that if the farmers get less than Rs.6,000 per quintal for their 

crop  of  chana  and  masoor  and  less  than  Rs.5,000  per  quintal  for  matar  and  only 

Rs.1,400 per quintal for their paddy crop then they would not survive.  The MSP 

for  paddy  should  be  fixed  at  least  Rs.2,800  to  Rs.3,000  per  quintal.    Madhya 

Pradesh Government had given a bonus of Rs.100 per quintal to wheat growers but 

this  has  been  stopped  owing  to  a  national  policy  in  this  regard.    Unless  MSP  for 

wheat  is  given  at  Rs.1800  to  Rs.2000  per  quintal  to  the  farmers,  the  target  for 

doubling the income of farmers cannot be achieved.  The Government also need to 

contemplate  that  instead  of  transferring  the  subsidy  directly  into  the  accounts  of 

farmers with certain acres of land, the farmers should be provided with necessary 

products  at  the  subsidized  rate  so  that  the  farmers  do  not  have  to  wait  for  the 

subsidy amount to purchase the inputs.  There is a need to work more in the field 

of drip irrigation.  There is also need to link MNREGA  scheme with the Ministry 

of Agriculture.  If it is done, the farmers can be given jobs for 365 days in a year 

instead  of  guarantying  150  days  job  for  farmers  under  MNREGA.    The 

Government also need to think that the agriculture holdings need to be increased.  

If  a  farmer  has  got  10  acres  of  agriculture  land  then  he  should  not  be  allowed  to 

sell  his  agriculture  land  because  the  small  farmers  tend  to  take  up  other 

occupations leaving the farming.  Therefore, there should be a complete ban on the 

sale of agriculture land by the farmers owning less than 10 acres.  

 

