  In  the  last  Session,  this  hon.  House  had  approved  the  bankruptcy  law.  

The  law is  now  becoming  operational.   One of  the big challenges  that  we  face is 

with regard to the enforcement of securities and the recovery of debt by financial 

institutions.  That having been done, two important laws, namely, the securitization 

law and the DRT law require to be amended.  These laws were initially legislated 

in order to give a quick disposal remedy as far as banks and financial institutions 

are concerned.  DRT as a law was meant to be an alternate or a substitute for a civil 

court.  The procedures before the DRT cannot be similar to that of a  civil court.  

Otherwise, the very purpose of creating the DRTs itself if getting defeated.  So, the 

present  law  simplifies  the  procedures  by  which  there  will  be  a  quick  disposal  of 

claims  of  banks  and  financial  institutions  before  the  DRT  itself.    As  far  as  the 

securitization law is concerned, this was enacted really with the idea of a bank or a 

financial institution being entitled to enforce a security because earlier the concept 

was  that  if  the  creditor  required  to  recover  his  money  from  the  debtor,  he  had  to 

chase the debtor.   The  procedure  under this  law  was  that the bank  would  enforce 

the security after giving a notice that 'we will take possession of whatever asset or 

property has been securitised'.  Thereafter, it is for the debtor now to start chasing 

the creditor for a settlement or for a scheme of repayment or move an appropriate 

remedy as far as the Debt recovery Tribunal is concerned.  In the budget this year,  

I had announced several reforms with regard to the asset reconstruction companies 

because as a part of the enforcement of the security, these companies have a very 

important  role  to  play.    Therefore,  those  norms  are  being  liberalized  which  have 

been in the current amendments.  These amendments were all referred to the Joint 

Committee,  the  same  Joint  Committee  which  recommended  the  enactment  of 

bankruptcy  law,  has  recommended  the  changes  to  these  laws  and  consequential 

changes to the Stamp Act and the Depositories Act itself. The Report of the Joint 

Committee is unanimous. The Government has accepted all the suggestions which 

the  hon.  Members  of  the  Joint  Committee  have  given.    Along  with  those 

amendments, the Bill is before this hon. House.   

 

