 

Some  Members  were  saying  that  the  actual  expenditure  has  come  down,  is  not 

correct.  From 2010 to 2014, the average expenditure per year was Rs. 945.99 crore, 

but these two years Rs. 2,235.65 crore is  the average expenditure.  I am not happy 

with this expenditure.  I am not satisfied also because we need money.  Housing for 

all by 2022 is not an easy thing.  It requires a huge amount.  I am also thankful to 

some  of  the  Members  that  they  made  a  request  to  the  Finance  Minister  also.    I 

myself  am  pursuing  the  Finance  Minister  to  make  more  allocation  for  the  housing 

sector.  But the fact of the matter is that the State has to send the proposal.  There is 

a  Committee  where  the  representative  of  the  State  Government  is  also  there.    The 

task of the Committee is to find out whether these proposals are in order or not.  I 

have  not  made  a  single  change  in  any  of  the  proposals  made  by  any  State.    Some 

States, for their own reason, have not even signed the Memorandum of Agreement.  

They have to identify the cities which have to be covered.  They have to identify the 

land.  I must put it on record that if some States are lagging behind, I myself have 

spoken to the Chief Ministers of those States.  Some of our friends were saying that I 

am changing frequently the size of the cities and all.  Now, it has been decided that 

this  will  be  covered  in  all  the  notified  towns  across  the  country.    Secondly,  States 

have to do their home work.  I can only sanction  money.   The execution has to be 

done by the State Governments and the related agencies.  Some of the Members also 

made  this  important  point  saying  that  without  creating  basic  infrastructure  and 

facilities  people  would  naturally  not  go  and  occupy  those  houses.    Under  the 

JNNURM,  22  per  cent  of  the  houses  which  are  constructed  are  unoccupied.    The 

reason  is  the  lack  of  infrastructure  and  lack  of  proper  planning.    So,  having  learnt 

lessons of the JNNURM, we have advised the States to please take care of all these 

aspects before proposing a scheme.  That is one of the reasons for the States taking 

some  time  also.  With  regard to  the proposals, Bihar has  sent proposals  for 30,126 

houses.    We  have  accepted  those  proposals  as  it  is.    Chhattisgarh  sent  12,670,   

Gujarat  sent  66,983,  Jharkhand  send  16,522,  we  have  accepted  it  as  it  is.    Money 

also is released in proportion.  We release the first installment, once that is spent, the 

second  installment  also  is  automatically  released.    Similarly,  other  states  have  also 

sent  proposals,  and  we  accepted  all  their  proposals  as  it  is.    I  can  share  with  my 

Karnataka  friends  that  Karnataka  proposals  came  late.    I  have  instructed  my 

Secretary  to  consult  the  State  if necessary, have  clarifications  and approve  them  in 

the  same  meeting.    That  was  done.    I  can  assure  all  the  Members  that  there  is  no 

question of showing any discrimination.  With regard of JNNURM within the short 

period of this NDA Government of not even two years, the total number of houses 

we have sanctioned is 7,03,186.  This is a record.  Our ultimate idea is that by the 

time  of  celebration  of  75  years  of  Independence  that  is  by  2022,  we  would  like  to 

provide  housing  for  all.    Both  the  Urban  Development  Ministry  and  the  Rural 

Development  Ministry  are  working  together.    With  regard  to  slum  dwellers,  they 

will be rehabilitated in the same place in an improved habitat atmosphere.  Rs. one 

lakh  for  each  slum  house  will  be  given  to  the  States  and  the  States  have  to  put  in 

some  matching  grant.    With  regard  to  registration  of  houses  in  PMAY  the  houses 

that are constructed will be registered in the name of female members.  Our target is 

to  construct  1.8  crore  by  2022;  in  a  short  span  of  five  months,  we  have  approved 

construction of 6,83,724 houses.  Compared to the earlier allocation, Rs. 5,400 crore 

have  been  allocated.    I  hope,  our  States  would  be  able  to  spend  the  money  and  I 

would be able to demand more money from the Finance Minister.  Housing cannot 

be  done  by  the  Central  Government  or  the  State  Government  alone;  the  private 

sector also has to get into this in a big way.  So, I appeal to the private sector also to 

join  the  housing  programme  in  a  big  way.    With  regard  to  the  Real  Estate 

(Regulation  and  Development)  Bill,  has  been  notified  on  the  1st  May.    My 

Department, under the Chairmanship of Secretary, is working about the model rules.  

Once  the  model  rules  are  finalised  within  two  months,  they  will  be  sent  to  all  the 

States.    States  have  also  to  finalise  the  rules  and  then  they  have  to  appoint  the 

Regulatory Authority.  Once the Regulatory Authority comes into operation, action 

can  be  taken  against  these  erring  defaulters.    There  is  concern  expressed  by  many 

Members that they are not taken into confidence.  We are working out with a system 

wherein the MPs also will have some say with regard to identification and also with 

regard to monitoring of the scheme.  With regard to Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana, 

National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM), it is extended from 789 cities to all the 

towns  across  the  country.    Street  Vendors  Act  is  a  very  progressive  piece  of 

legislation but unfortunately in the Act it is said that the rules will be made by the 

States.    So  far  its  performance  is  not  satisfactory.    I  only  hope  that  the  States  will 

take immediate steps.  About Rs. 725 crore of fund sanctioned is currently available 

with  the  States  in  this  regard  for  the  homeless  and  shelters  also.    Ease  of 

construction,  single  window  clearance  is  another  important  thing.    I  have  taken  an 

initiative  and  had  a  meeting  with  six  of  my  colleagues  around  six  or  seven  times.  

We  all  sat  together  to  take  steps  for  a  single  window  approval  mechanism  for 

housing  project.    I  am  very  happy  that  all  the  Central  Government  agencies  have 

agreed  to  create  certain  bench  marks  and  also  the  Ministry  of  Civil  Aviation  has 

come  out  with  their  help.    With  colour  coding  maps  so  that  very  municipal 

coporation would be able to understand what is permitted.  With regard to Defense, 

28 airports with civilian enclaves would also be given colour-coded zonal notified.  

With regard to environmental safeguards for incorporation of by-laws, the Ministry 

of Environment has issued a notification with pre-defined objectives of monitorable 

environmental  safeguards  and  conditions  for  buildings  of  different  sizes.    Lastly  I 

would  only  say  that  recently  we  have  issued  instructions  for  Delhi  and  had  a 

workshop also.  In Delhi, the applications for housing plans would on-line only.  As 

regards Mumbai, I am having a meeting with the Chief Minister on 6th of this month 

where we are going to issue guidelines for Mumbai also.  Once Delhi and Mumbai 

show a roadmap for others, I hope and urge upon all the Members of Parliament to 

impress  upon  their  municipal  bodies  as  also  State  Governments  to  see  that 

permission is given within the stipulated period.  The Chief  Ministers of Telangana 

and Andhra Pradesh have assured in this regard.  They have set up a time limit also.  

I  hope that  every  State  would  set  up a time  limit  of 30  days  to 60  days  maximum.  

There  are  a  lot  of  other  issues  but  due  to  paucity  of  time,  I  would  not  be  able  to 

touch them.  I am thankful to the hon. Members for the suggestions which they have 

given.  I have taken note of them.  Our endeavour is to live up to the expectations of 

the  people.    I  seek  the  cooperation  of  the  States  and  urban  local  bodies  in  this 

endeavour.   

 

The discussion was concluded. 

All the cut motions were put and negatived. 

All the Demands for Grants were voted in full. 

 

 

 

