 At the outset, let me say that we fully 

support the Bill and I also congratulate the hon. Health Minister who has brought 

this Bill which was pending for a long time.  I also take this opportunity to thank 

him  on  behalf  of  my  Government  for  allotting  the  AIIMS  to  Telangana  State.    I 

would also urge upon the Government to give financial sanction for the AIIMS in 

this budget only.  AIDS affects the body, the mind and the social status.  Most of 

the patients are from the lower and  middle income groups. They are  made to run 

from  one  hospital  to  another.    Various  excuses  and  reasons  are  given  not  to  give 

treatment.  This Bill will effectively deal with it as it has punishment provisions for 

people who avoid rendering services for these people. That is the most important 

aspect of this Bill which I wholeheartedly welcome.  Every master health checkup 

has  a  HIV  test.    Every  diagnostic  centre  and  hospital  should  take  the  precaution 

that  people  who  come  for  routine  and  regular  health  check  up  also  need  to  be 

informed about all the tests.  Most of the times we see social tensions and violence 

after the marriage.  I am finding fault with those who know about HIV but do not 

disclose it to the family of the innocent girl or boy.  That is absolutely a crime and 

there should be a provision for punishment.  The punishment should be much more 

than what we have provided in this Bill.  Ombudsman job is very nice.  Most of the 

time people cannot go to the court and file a case.  Any institution engaging more 

than 25 people or a 50 bed hospital should have the ombudsman.  I would like to 

add  a  provision  here  to  the  effect  that  compensation  shall  be  paid  to  the  positive 

person if he undergoes mental stress because of the denial of the treatment.  With 

good nutrition we can prolong death and in some cases even prevent it.  Not only 

HIV,  AIDS  is  also  preventable.    With  these  words,  I  wholeheartedly  support  the 

Bill.   

 

