  The 

country has 14 thousand kilo meter long coast line and 13 coastal states as well as 

12  major  ports.    The  government  is  going  to  start  construction  of  3  more  major 

ports  before  the  month  of  March.    Whether  we  see  China  ,  Korea,  Japan  and 

various  European  countries  such  as  UK,  France,  Germany  or  Spain  all  the 

countries  have  their  industrial  establishments  adjacent  to  rivers.    Such  location 

brings  down  logistic  cost.    The  dream  of  Make  in  India  conceptualized  for 

development  of  the  country  cannot  come  true  without  lowering  the  logistic  cost.  

That is why the priority on waterway network is being given.  First, I want to clear 

that  we  want  to  work  in  close  cooperation  of  State  Governments  in  setting  up 

waterways.    The  waterways  will  have  a  width  of  45  meter.        We  are  going  to 

maintain  a  annual  draft  of    three  meters  depth.  For  this,  the  rivers  have  to  be 

dredged up to three meter depth.  The first pilot project involves waterways from 

Allahabad  to  Haldia  stretching  as  long  as  1620  kilo  meter.  Three  international 

consultants  have  submitted  their  reports  on  techno-economic  feasibility,  detailed 

engineering,  business  development,  environment  and  social  impact,    cargo  and 

business potential in Ganga.  We are going to set up three multi-model terminals at 

Varanasi, Sahib Ganj and Haldia.  27 water ports are also been constructed.  More 

water  ports  will  be  constructed  as  per  requirements.    Near  the  water  ports  the 

government has planned to set up pre-pulling plants, cold storage, smart cities and 

industrial  areas.      An  information  system  linked  with  the  satellite  has  been 

prepared.    Fishermen  are  going  to  be  a  largest  beneficiary  of  this  project.    The 

required three meter draft and dredging will also provide water for irrigation.  The 

water  flow  in  Brahmaputra  river  has  also  been  opened  by  the  Bangladesh  for 

transportation.  The cost for establishing waterways network may require nearly 1 

lakh crore rupees. We are trying hard to arrange finance for this project. We have 

also planned to borrow money in dollars from foreign countries at 2 percent annual 

interest rate. India has not a single sea plane whereas a small country like  Maldive 

has  47  sea  planes.    I  have  asked  Russian  delegation  to  come  to  India,  we  shall 

provide space to them in our ports for making sea planes.  It will increase tourism, 

employment, fisheries  in the country and bring down pollution as well as logistic 

cost.    Pollution  is  a  very  sensitive  issue  in  the  country.    So,  I  have  suggested  to 

establish LNG terminals, to use LNG gas as fuel so that the pollution level could 

be  lowered.    If  we  are  able  to  bring  down  logistic  cost  from  30  percent  to  15 

percent  only  then  our  project  will  be  competitive  in  the  world  market  and  will 

increase our exports. The length of waterways in Kerala will be increased.   I have 

noted  down  all  the  suggestion  given  by  Members  and  we  are  ready  to  construct 

more waterways as per your demand.  We will work as per the permission of State 

Government. Let us pass the Bill unanimously.   

The Bill, as amended, was passed. 

 
