  I  rise 

to  support 

the  Atomic  Energy 

(Amendment)  Bill,  2015.    The  Amendment  Bill  allows  the  Nuclear  Power 

Corporation to tie up with the public undertakings to form new energy producing 

units.    The  Indian  Oil  Corporation  (IOC)  and  the  National  Thermal  Power 

Corporation  (NTPC)  have  expressed  willingness  to  go  into  and  join  such 

undertakings.  It is a welcome stop.  Through nuclear energy has huge potential of 

destruction  but  now  the  attention  has  gone  into  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  

The  thought  of  having  nuclear  power  plants  came  in  the  late  50's  and  early  60's.  

Then, the Nuclear Power Corporation was established in 1962.  Then many nuclear 

power plants have been set up in the country.  We have built a fast breeder reactor 

near Mahabalipuram temples.  So, we will be less dependent on imported fuels.  If 

we can have a nuclear reactor based on thorium, then the problem of nuclear fuel 

would be solved for ever because we have huge deposits of thorium.  The biggest 

advantage of nuclear energy is that it is clean.  But there is a problem of disposal of 

spent  fuel.    There  have  been  three  nuclear  power  accidents  in  the  world.    Safety 

considerations  are  very  important  as  far  as  nuclear  power  plants  are  concerned.   

One of the impediments is the Civil Nuclear Liabilities Act.  According to our Act, 

the main liability for the accident will be borne by the supplier of the equipment.  

Now  the  Government  is  trying  to  open  it  up  to  others  so  that  Indian  Oil 

Corporation and NPTC can also participate but what expertise can NTPC of IOC 

offer  to  nuclear  power?    With  the  environmental  and  climatic  concerns  being 

raised, the nuclear energy can provide a big fillip to that. 

 

SHRI  TATHAGATA  SATPATHY:  The  Atomic  Energy  (Amendment) 

Bill  2015  needs  a  lot  of  thinking.    The  Government  is  planning  to  allow  only 

Government-owned  companies  to  invest  in  nuclear  projects.    India  is  an  energy-

starved country and we need green energy.  The sad part here is that you are going 

to invest in a system where the developed world is moving away from that system 

and moving away from production of atomic energy.  We come into play because 

they  want  to  hive  off  all  their  unused  or under-used  or non-usable nuclear  power 

plants to certain other countries.  The major problem is the disposal of radioactive 

material.    This  industry  in  India  is  non-transparent,  unaccountable  and  it  works 

under a veil of secrecy.  Safety regulations are the first thing that goes for a toss.  

The  Government  has  not  thoroughly  planned  or  trained  the  people  on  how  to  act 

during a crisis.  Even our officials are unwilling to take risks and are unwilling to 

take  care  of  the  basic  safeguards.    Giving  over  this  sort  of  a  thing  to  exclusively 

government-run agencies could be detrimental to the interests of the people of this 

country.  I would suggest the Government that they should take a rethink not only 

on this particular Bill but also on nuclear energy to be produced in this country in 

the future.  

 

