 When the corporate tax rates 

come down, they will be accompanied by phasing out of exemptions.  Ostensibly, 

tax plus cess is about 34 percent.  But with the kind of exemptions which are given 

in income tax, the corporate tax rate effectively realised in this country is about 22 

to 23 per cent.  Therefore,  one of the intentions of the Government is that to the 

extent  possible,  the  exemptions  be  phased  out.    As  far  as  indirect  taxation  is 

concerned, the exemption today being spoken of is in the Customs Tariff Act.  The 

Customs Tariff Act functions on the principle that there is a bound rate and there is 

an  applied  rate.    It  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  Income  Tax  Act.    With  regard  to 

marble trade, currently, we have transient measures, like Quantitative Restrictions, 

what is the quantity that can come from outside and we have the Minimum Import 

Price.  If any of these measures is removed, we should not have a situation where a 

lot of international marble comes in, floods the domestic market and the domestic 

companies are not able to sell their marbles.  Therefore, we are raising the present 

10 per cent which is the bound rate and also the applied rate and giving it a little 

flexibility  by  taking  it  up  to  40  per  cent.    About  the  VSNL  question,  the 

Government  gets  VSNL  land  by  virtue  of  its  rights  under  the  agreements  which 

were  signed  in  2002.    When  the  land  comes  to  us,  it  will  be  parked  in  a  Special 

Purpose Vehicle and HPIL.  Then the Government has the option to use it in many 

manners.    This  will  be  a  great  asset  which  will  be  vest  in  the  Government.  

Therefore, the resource must come to the Government and it must come free from 

tax liability.  That is the objective.  Third important issue with regard to garment 

exports  that  why  have  garment  imports  shrunk?    However,  the  world  trade  is  

shrinking, therefore, it  is  also  a  global  phenomenon.    Secondly,  the  values  of  the 

goods have shrunk.  Last month the Cabinet has approved a complete package as 

far  as  the  growth  of  apparel  exports  and  textile  industry  domestic  use  in  India  is 

concerned.  In this regard, smaller economies has valuation or  taxation advantage 

over India.  Therefore, we start with a disadvantage of about 8 to 10 per cent.  So, 

indirectly, unless we are able to incentivise in some manner, we will not be able to 

complete.    Now,  a  question  has  been  raised.    If  240  days  become  150  days,  will 

employment go down?  The reality is that Indian garments which are manufactured 

apparel  for  export  are  all  summer  garments.      Therefore  the  nature  of  this  trade 

itself  is  seasonal.    The  nature  of  the  industry  is  such  that  this  tax  advantage  is 

intended to be given to them so that the apparel industry also becomes competitive 

and they are able to take the cost advantage.  I am sure that with these incentives 

the apparel industry would be able to contribute for the creation of a large number 

of jobs. 

The Bill was passed. 

 

