 I think the entire House will 

agree  that  education  is  the  backbone  of  this  country  and  technology  and 

technological  capabilities  will  be  the  backbone  of  this  country.    So,  these  two 

institutes,  I  hope,  in  the  future,  will  become  an  asset,  not  just  for  the  State  of 

Odisha and Andhra Pradesh but for the entire nation.  But I feel compelled to point 

out  that  connectivity  is  a  problem  in  Berhampur.    There  is  a  demand  that  the 

nearest  airstrip  must  be  upgraded  and  updated  so  that  access  to  this  world-class 

institution that we all are dreaming of has access to the rest of India.  Apart from 

that, I  would  like  to point out  that  the  admissions  for  research  programmes  were 

delayed  by  a  year  in  the  Tirupati  Institute.    Several  vacancies  for  the  posts  of 

Professors and Associate Professors have emerged in the Tirupati Institute.  I hope 

the Government will take interest in that and solve that problem.  I would also like 

to inform the Government that neither of these two IISERs in Tirupati and Odisha 

have  doctoral  degrees  of  post-doctoral  fellowships.  With  regard  to  North  East 

States,  I  would  like  to  point  out  that  in  2015  budget,  proposal  was  made  that  a 

IISER  would  be  set  up  in  Nagaland  but  it  is  unfortunate  that  nothing  has  been 

mentioned  in  this  regard  in  this  Bill.    I  would  like  to  ask  the  Government  what 

steps are likely to be taken in this regard.  Today, whether it is IITs, NITs or IIITs 

all of them have a certain generic problems.  There are 3300 engineering colleges 

in the country and more than 14 lakh engineering seats are available today, but the 

question is that what is their level of employability?  Moreover out of eight lakh 

engineers  passing  out  every  year,  nearly  five  lakh  remain  unemployed.      Today, 

only 15 per cent of the 3,300 engineering institutions have been accredited by the 

National Board of Accreditation.  If these are the figures, is it enough for us as a 

nation to simply create institutions?  So, the government is planning some reforms 

and they have kept for themselves certain targets that by 2022, 50 per cent of the 

programmes shall be accredited by the NBA.  All of us are aware of the Kakodkar 

Committee Report on IIT and NITs and I am sure that the Government will take 

these  into  consideration  and  will  implement  them.    I  am  happy  to  see  that  the 

World  Bank  has  given  201.50  US  dollars  as  a  part  of  the  Technical  Education 

Quality  Improvement  Project.    This  funding  will  concentrate  on  equitable 

distribution of skills across India including North Eastern States.  I would like to 

submit  that  unless  the  faculties  of  IITs,  NITs  and  other  engineering  institutes 

increase  collaboration  in  teaching,  I  feel  that  we  may  not  be  able  to  give  our 

students  in  these  institutes  the  kind  of  technological  know-how  needed  in  this 

competitive world.  Moreover, the heart-breaking problem was that last year 3,195 

seats fell vacant, whether it is NIT, IIT, IIIT and other institutes.  Perhaps there is a 

need to bring reforms in the functioning of JoSAA.  I hope that this problem will 

be solved by the Government.  

 

