  There  is  a  slight 

difference  from  the  previous  Bill  in  the  sense  that  the  definitions  have  changed.  

This Bill had been introduced in the Rajya Sabha and was referred to the Standing 

Committee.  Out of the four recommendations of the Committee, three were agreed 

by  the  Government.    The  one  which  was  not  accepted  was  with  regard  to 

compensation has been left in the realm of the Executive.  The death penalty also 

has been brought in where if a death occurs.  So, I would like to request the hon. 

Members of the House to support the Government on this Bill.   

 

SHRI  ADHIR  RANJAN  CHOWDHURY 

initiating  said:  Since 

Independence  we  have  experienced  seven  nerve-wrecking  hijacking  incidents  in 

India.   The  civil  aviation industry  in  our  country  has  been growing  exponentially 

since the  new  millennium.   India is  expected to  become  the third  largest  aviation 

market by 2020 and the largest by 2030.  But, at the same time it has brought in its 

stride great vulnerabilities also.  That is why, we need to be very vigilant and more 

holistic  in  our  approach  towards  the  security  of  our  passengers.    The  first  anti-

hijacking legislative document was explored in 1963 by the Japanese Government 

and  the  same  is  called  the  Tokyo  Convention.    There  is  a  sequence  of  various 

Conventions and Protocols which had been culminated in this legislation.  There is 

an  urgent need  to  update  the  existing  air law  instruments  which  this  Government 

has been pursuing and I must support this step.  The provisions of Clause 7 of this 

new  Bill  will  enable  India  to  register  a  case  against  hijackers  if  any  Indian  is 

hijacked in any aircraft anywhere across the world.  The proposed law would also 

give  teeth  to  concerned  agencies  or  security  forces  to  immobilize  an  aircraft  or 

prevent its take-off and also allow the Indian Air Force to scramble its fighters to 

intercept a hijacked aircraft and force it to land.  The other proposed amendments 

include powers to the agencies and forces to take stern action against those making 

hoax  threats  also.    Security  in  airports  in  India  is  being  provided  by  various 

agencies and various Ministries.  I would like to give some suggestions.  I would 

like to insert more legal teeth into this legislation. 

 

