  I  congratulate  both  the  Governments- 

the  UPA  Government  and 

the  NDA  Government  for  bringing  such  a 

comprehensive Bill to protect and promote the interests of persons having mental 

disorder. This is a perfect legislation.  It is surprising to know that in India six to 

seven per cent of the population is suffering from mental illness.  But the medical 

infrastructure available to address to address mental illness is very poor.  As result 

over 50 per cent of the mentally ill persons in India do not have access to mental 

healthcare.  So,  mental  healthcare,  social  stigma  and  discrimination,  and  also 

rehabilitation are aspects which are well addressed in the Mental Healthcare Bill, 

2016.    I  am  now  coming  to  the  provisions  of  the  Bill.    I  would  like  to  seek  a 

clarification  from  the  hon.  Minister  whether  we  will  be  able  to  implement  the 

mental  health  care  as  stipulated  in  Clauses  2(1)(O)  of  the  Bill.    Given  the  wider 

scope  of  the  definition  of  mental  illness  as  enumerated  in  Clauses  2(1)(S)  of  the 

Bill,  I  would  also  like  to  ask  whether  the  Government  with  the  limited  existing 

infrastructure  would  be  able  to  implement  these  provisions  in  practice.    I  would 

appreciate the hon. Minister as  well as the Government regarding Section 309 of 

the  India  Penal  Code  that  is  decriminalization  of  the  attempt  to  commit  suicide 

which is provided in clause 115 of the Bill.  It is a very progressive and a logical 

provision. Regarding  suicide, it  is very  interesting to  note  that  in India  suicide is 

one among the top ten causes of death.  That is why, the Law Commission in its 

210th Report had recommended and suggested for decriminalization of attempt to 

commit  suicide.  I  have  moved  13  amendments  which  will  help  the  government 

and make the provisions more clear.  I fully and wholeheartedly support this Bill.   

 

