  I  am  on  my  legs  to 

speak  on  the  child  labour  (prohibition  and  regulation)  amendment  bill,  2016, 

however  this  debate  does  not  hold  much  significance  as  the  government  enjoys 

here full majority.  The child labour amendment bill provides for prohibition on the 

employment  of  the  children  below  14  years  in  all  sorts  of  work,  provided  this 

ceases  to  be  applicable  in  the  cases  where  children  help  their  family  or  family 

enterprises  after  school  hour  or  during  holidays.    But  the  government  forgot  that 

only relatives have been found guilty   in most of the cases of forcing the children 

to work,. It has also been accepted that children can work from 4-6 hours.  But who 

will  ensure  as  to  how  long  they  are  working.    Whether  the  bureaucracy  or  the 

police,  who  intends  to  earn  benefit  in  collusion  with  those  business  men  and  the 

corporate world.  I would like to reiterate that no one cares for the children because 

they  are not voters.  The  children  have  been put to  commercialization.   It  sounds 

very good in black and white that the extent of penalty has been increased but only 

4474  persons  have  been  brought  to  book  since  the  enforcement  of  Child  Labour 

Act, 1986.  It is a matter of shame that the penalty imposed for the violation of the 

said  Act  was  merely  Rs.  20  and  Rs.  25.    Hence  only  increasing  the  extent  of 

penalty  is  not  going  to  stop  the  exploitation  of  the  children  in  the  country.  

According  to  the  government  figure  there  are  only  50  lakh  child  labour  in  the 

country whereas the 2011 census reveals that the number of child labour was 1.25 

crore  thus  it  is  nothing  but  the  maneuvering  of  the  government  figure.    Now  I 

would like to talk about  their  rehabilitation.   The  children  rescued  from  the  child 

labour should have been properly rehabilitated.  It is claimed that the rehabilitation 

scheme  is  being  implemented  in  66  districts  of  the  country  but  the  number  of 

beneficiary children is only 6 lakh.  Although this Bill prohibits the employment of 

children in certain hazardous industries and factories, the hazardous work has not 

been  defined  therein.    Furthermore,  the  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs  do  not  put  the 

begging  children  into  the  category  of  child  labour.    To  me,  this  subject  does  not 

belong  only  to  the  Ministry  of  Labour.    The  Ministry  of  Human  Resource 

Development,  Niti  Ayog,  the  Ministry  of  Labour,  the  Ministry  of  Finance,  the 

Ministry of Social Justice should have brooded over it collectively.  This stands to 

be  a  great  responsibility  of  the  Government  towards  them.    Like  China,  our 

population is also burgeoning  but we do not want to toe its line.  The government 

should invest in the education of the children as the report of the world bank also 

admits  that  if  they  learn  the  basics,  read  and  write,  the  growth  rate  of  GDP  will 

increase by 0.37 per cent annually.  In 10 years only on the basis of education GDP 

will grow by 10 percent.  Hence, first of all, the government should have provided 

food to those poor people who put their children to work for a square meal, instead 

of  bringing  this  amendment  in  order  to  provide  benefit  to  the  corporate  and 

industry world.  The government talks about the elimination of the child labour and 

at the same time promotes family enterprises.   Prostitution and the exploitation of 

the  children  have  been  encouraged  in  the  name  of  family  enterprises  by  this 

amendment.  This bill does not provide for the liberation of those children who are 

working  in  the  unorganized  sector.    This  is  a  serious  issue  and  hence  the 

government  should  think  about  the  children  cutting  across  the  political  line  and 

accept the suggestions made by the people like Kailash Satyarthi. 

 

