  23  Hon.  Members 

gave  valuable  suggestions  on  this  Bill.    Had  shale  gas  not  been  discovered  in 

America  then  perhaps  the  politics  and  economy  of  the  world  would  have  been 

different.    We  might  have  seen  oil  prices  at  100  dollars.    At  the  time  of 

reorganization  the  previous  government  rightly  decided  to  have  an  institute  of 

national  importance  for  Andhra  Pradesh  keeping  in  view  the  needs  of  the  nation.  

This will benefit not only Andhra Pradesh but also the economy of the country and 

the  world  as  it  will  help  our  youths  get  employment.    The  institute  will  not  only 

cater to research and education in petroleum engineering and petroleum energy but 

attention will also be on alternative non-fossil hydro-carbon and alternative energy.  

There is widespread discussion regarding next generation energy.  Hydrate is one 

such  topic.    Japan,  America,  China  and  India  are  the  leading  economies 

researching on gas hydrates.  Krishna-Godavari basin has the potential to become a 

prolific basin, which in the coming days, perhaps for hundreds of years may meet 

the  energy  needs  of  the  country.    Where  is  the  challenge?    The  challenge  is 

regarding  how  to  monetize  it.    How  to  extract  it?    The  KG  Basin  will  have  the 

same place as Houston has in the global oil economy, research and trade.  Can our 

scientists not turn Vizag, Vishakhapatanam, Kakinada or Rajamundri in future into 

Houston.  I am fully convinced that these in future can become Houston.  Perhaps, 

this  will  become  possible  through  the  Indian  Institute  of  Petroleum  and  Energy.  

The  Prime  Minister  told  the  world  that  India  is  most  conscious  regarding 

environment.    India  is  the  least  polluting  country.    Employment  to  locals  would 

certainly are focus.  There is no question of hiring outsiders as non-teaching staff.  

The  youths  of  Andhra  Pradesh  will  get  employment.    Study  will  also  be  on  the 

safety aspect.  The Prime Minister is committed to provide on a long-term basis to 

the poor the supply of cheap and continuous energy, clean energy as well as safe 

energy.   

 

 

The Bill was passed. 

 
