  There  are  certain  problems  associated  with  HIV 

infection.  The treatment of the disease per se and the combination is very costly.  

Therefore, the burden  lies on  the  Government  and  the patient.   The  third  thing is 

the discrimination against the person affected by the disease.   The fourth thing is 

that  the  person  gets  infection  not  due  to  his  fault  but  for  various  other  reasons.  

Two  decades  ago,  India  was  considered  a  hotspot.    Initially,  in  States  like  Tamil 

Nadu,  Maharashtra  and  Andhra  Pradesh,  many  cases  were  detected,  but  all  the 

State Governments, with the help of the Central Government, took all the measures 

to control the disease.  India has demonstrated that the course of an epidemic can 

be  reversed  by  public  education,  mass  awareness  and  wide-scale  availability  of 

testing  and  treatment.    The  present  Bill  lists  the  various  ground  on  which 

discrimination  against  HIV-affected  persons  and  those  living  with  them  is 

prohibited.    I  feel  this  should  be  executed  on  the  ground-level  without  any 

compromise.    The  Union  Government  should  provide  adequate  financial  and 

logistic  support  to  the  State  Governments  to  take  effective  measures  to  prevent 

further  spread  of  HIV  or  AIDS.      For  the  first  time,  the  Bill  brings  together  a 

human  rights  perspective  to  public  health  and  makes  Antiretroviral  treatment  a 

right of HIV/AIDS patients.  This Bill will ensure that in future that no Indian has 

to struggle for diagnosis or treatment.  The Bill also mandates that no person can 

be compelled to disclose their HIV status report except with informed consent, and 

if required by a court order.  The Bill intends to ensure that those living with HIV 

do so with dignity and respect enjoying all their rights as citizens.   

 

DR.  RATNA  DE  (NAG):  India has the third largest HIV epidemics in the 

world  after  South  Africa  and  Nigeria.    The  Bill  highlights  the  provisions  to 

safeguard  the  rights  of  the  people  living  with  HIV  and  affected  by  HIV.    It  also 

lists  various  grounds  on  which  discrimination  against  HIV  positive  persons  and 

those  living  with  them  is  prohibited.    Alongside,  the  aim  is  also  to  enhance  the 

legal  accountability  and  establish  formal  mechanism  for  redressing  grievances.  

The  prevention  programme  does  not  look  at  how  women's  bodies  are  different 

from men.  The Bill fails to include provisions for the protection of people who are 

most  vulnerable  to  contracting  the  disease,  for  instance,  people  frequently  using 

contaminated  injection  equipment.    The  stigma  attached  to  HIV  AIDS  victims  in 

India  remains  intense  and  is  not  only  confined  to  social  obstacles  but  economic 

too.  The Chief Minister of West Bengal has initiated a programme called Muktir 

Alo for skill development and vocational training for the sex workers.   

 

