  I  think  this  is  a  matter  of  great 

satisfaction that the nuclear programme has progressively been on the ascent.  We 

have, to  a  large  extent, succeeded  in  achieving  the goals  that  we  have  set  out  for 

ourselves.  In the last 17 or 18 months, under the leadership of the present Prime 

Minister,  there  have  been  a  number  of  agreements  and  MoUs  with  a  number  of 

countries.  In fact, whichever he has visited abroad, he has always come back with 

something related to nuclear energy so much so that even day before yesterday, on 

the 12th, when the Japanese Prime Minister was here, there was an MoU signed in 

atomic energy.  India is the major store-house of thorium today.  In fact, it is the 

world's  biggest  storehouse  of  thorium.    I  would  also  agree  with  you  that  we  still 

need to exploit the fullest potential of thorium in India.  We are certainly moving 

in  that  direction.    Hon.  Members  mentioned  about  the  apprehensions  about  the 

accidents.  But we in India, under the leadership of eminent scientists have taken 

care of this part also.  Most of our plants are located or set up after taking care of 

all  these  possible  risk  factors.    Also  the  seismic  zone  close  to  India  is  located  in 

Indonesia which is more than about 300 kms. away.   So, we do not actually suffer 

that  kind  of  a  risk  magnitude.    The  Civil  Nuclear  Liability  Damage  Act  of  2010 

was mentioned by on hon. Member.  But, let me use this opportunity to share with 

this august House that there are three or four major points which would sum up all 

the  concerns  as  far  as  this  Act  is  concerned.    First,  there  is  absolutely  no 

compromise  on  the  priority  given  to  the  victim.    Second,  the  liability  of  the 

operator to the supplier has been kept intact so that the operator can also claim it.  

Three, we have now instituted the National Nuclear Pool which was coming in the 

way  of  companion.    The  disposal  of  spent  fuel  was  referred  to.  Of  course, it  is  a 

major concern.  But, in the area of atomic energy, that is something which is done 

in a very scientific way.  There is a proper scientific methodology of dealing with 

the spent fuel.  Nuclear Power Corporation of India limited is under the purview of 

RTI. All the data is also put on the website.  Atomic Energy Regulatory Board has 

been given full autonomy.  All the autonomous units in the country have  to draw 

their salary from some exchequer. Therefore, it does not necessarily mean that they 

are subjected to the Government's whims and fancies.  A reactor is designed after 

full technical and cost viability tests.  Over the last 60 years not a single scientist 

has  been  affected  by  nuclear  radiation.    There  have  been  hardly  about  20  odd 

unnatural  deaths  but  none  of  them  due  to  nuclear  radiation.    In  fact,  in  some 

foreign  countries,  now-a-days  they  have  got  into  the  practice  of  bringing  up 

nuclear  plants  even  in  the  residential  areas.    Jaitpur  plant  does  not  fall  in  the 

seismic  zone.    After  all  the  tests,  the  conclusion  was  that  the  site  is  safe.    So, 

apprehensions,  sometimes  occurring  spontaneously  and  sometimes  motivated  by 

extraneous considerations can be overcome by the collective effort of all of us. As 

far as entry of the private sector or foreign company is concerned, that has not yet 

been granted for reasons known to all of us.  We have regular import of uranium 

happening from a number of countries including Canada, Kazakhastan and Russia.  

There is certainly no FDI clause included in this amendment.  By 2020, we would 

be having as much as 13,500 MW of nuclear power.  I must admit that of course 

Tamil  Nadu  is  one  of  our  most  precious  storehouses  of  nuclear  programme. 

Kudankulam Phase I will certainly start by January and second unit of Phase II by 

March or  April  2016.   That  is  another  issue  which  is  bothering  many  of  the hon. 

Members  cause  the  policy,  as  it  exists,  enables  us  to  allow  50  per  cent  of  the 

energy share for the State. Tamil Nadu is asking for a larger share.  It is the Power 

Ministry actually which is determining how much share to go somewhere, and we 

follow the same.   As far as expertise is concerned, NPCIL will make up for that.  

For example, if NPCIL is a partner for Maruti or any other concern, then NPCIL 

will be the main leader.  Regarding Gorakhpur, the work has already started.   

The Bill was passed. 

 

