  I  support  this  Bill  with  certain 

reservations.  Major  recommendations  of  the  Standing  Committee  have  not  been 

taken  into  consideration.  They  would  have  improved  the  Bill.  This  is  my  first 

observation. Black money is a menace to the Indian economy and benami deals are 

one of the major reasons for the proliferation of black money in a big way. So, if 

we  want  to  restrict  and  prohibit  the  generation  of  black  money,  definitely,  the 

benami transactions should be dealt with in a very strict  manner. The original Bill 

Benami Transaction (Prohibition) Act has passed in 1988. Even after 27 years, no 

rules  have  been  framed  under  this  Act.  It  shows  that  the  Governments  were  not 

sincere  in  the  operationalisation  of  the  benami  law.  Therefore,  I  congratulate  the 

hon.  Finance  Minister  at  least  this  time  this  Bill  has  come  before  the  House  for 

consideration. And we are going to pass this Bill also.  A very good mechanism is 

put  in  place  and  a  well-established  procedure  is  also  there.    But  there  are  some 

clarifications  which  I  would  like  to  seek.    The  first  clarification  is  regarding  the 

application  of  code  of  civil  procedure.    Section  11  and  Section  19  are  totally 

contradictory.  The Adjudicating Authority shall not be bound by the Code of Civil 

Procedure as per Section 11 of the proposed amendment Bill.  Section 19 is totally 

reverse to this Section.  It says that the Authority shall for the purpose of this Act 

have  the  same  powers  as  are  vested  in  a  civil  court  under  the  Code  of  Civil 

Procedure  1908  while  trying  a  suit.    Therefore,  the  Adjudicating  Authority, 

Administrator etc. are having all these powers.  So, the Adjudicating Authority and 

authorities  under  the  Act  are  not  bound  by  the  CPC  as  far  as  the  procedure  is 

concerned.    But  as  far  as  the  powers  are  concerned,  we  are  entitled  to  all  the 

powers.  Similarly, the same situation is there in regard to section 40 Clause 1 and 

Clause 2.  As per Clause 1 of Section 40, the Appellate Tribunal shall not be bound 

by  the  procedure  laid  down  by  the  Code  of  Civil  Procedure  1908  but  shall  be 

guided  by  the  principles  of  natural  justice.    Clause  2  of  Section  40  says  that  the 

Appellate  Tribunal  shall,  for  the  purpose  of  discharging  its  functions  under  this 

Act, have the same powers as were vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil 

Procedure  1908.    Therefore,  they  are  not  bound  by  the  procedure  which  is  being 

laid.  The second clarification is regarding the appeal before the High Court. That 

is under clause 49(3), (4), and (5).  It says that if the High Court is satisfied that a 

substantial question of law is involved in that case it shall formulate that question.  

I think, for the first time in the history of Indian legislation we are restricting the 

powers  of  the  High  Court.    That  question  only  will  be  argued  and  decided.    The 

High  Court  is  having  inherent  powers  and  discretionary  powers.    How  can  we 

restrict the High Court that it should adjudicate only on the question of law?  It is 

an  admitted  fact  that  the  High  Court  will  entertain  an  appeal  only  if  there  is  a 

question  of  law.    Another  clarification  which  I  would  like  to  seek  is  regarding 

section  58.    An  exemption  is  given  here  again  to  the  definition  of  benami 

transaction.  What is a benami transaction?  Almost all the benami transactions are 

in the name of religious and charitable trusts.  The fourth point on which I would 

like to seek  clarification  is  Section 59.   The power of the  Central  Government to 

issue instructions, directions and orders to the Authority is very interesting.  What 

are  the  areas  where  the  directions  are  given?    Is  a  judicious  mind  applied  in  this 

provision?  Provision  made under Section 59(3) is a very strange provision.  The 

Adjudicating  Authority  should  be  independent.    Why  should  the  Central 

Government  issue  direction  and  instruction?    I  am  only  seeking  clarification  on 

Section 59 Operationalisation of this Act definitely depends on the political will of 

the Government to curb benami transactions and black money.    

 

