  I would 

like to express my gratitude and thanks to all the hon. Members who have put forth 

their views on this important Bill on road safety.  We will seriously consider all the 

suggestions that they have made and will implement them.  I extend my thanks to 

Shri  Mukul  Rai  ji  and  all  the  Members  of  the  Standing  Committee  as  they 

submitted their suggestions after going through the Bill in a very short time and we 

have formulated this Bill on the basis of those suggestions.  Besides, the Transport 

Ministers of 18 states also went through it.  I would especially like to thank them.  

The  Government  has  accepted  almost  all  the  recommendations  of  the  Standing 

Committee.    Some  hon.  Members  have  expressed  their  concerns  with  regard  to 

third  party  insurance.    I  would  like  to  make  it  clear  in  this  regard  that  the  upper 

limit of the compensation amount by the claims tribunal has not been fixed and the 

entire compensation amount will have to be paid by the insurance companies. To 

expedite the settlement of cases, a provision of compensation of Rs.5 lakh has been 

made in the Bill.  The victims may accept that amount of compensation, otherwise, 

they  will  be  free  to  approach  the  claims  tribunal.    This  decision  has  been  made 

with the intention of bringing down the cases.  This Bill provides for an accident 

victim fund which will be used in case of hit-and-run incidents and for providing 

treatment to the injured during the golden hour.  After the constitution of the fund, 

the Solatium Fund will be merged into this new fund.  With regard to aggregators, 

the  states  can  formulate  their  own  policy  as  per  their  requirement.    The  state 

governments  have  full  powers  in  this  regard.    So  far  as  the  question  of  public 

transport  services  is  concerned,  all  the  powers  have  been  conferred  on  the  state 

governments.    The  hon.  Minister  of  Finance  had  stated  in  his  speech  that  the 

Government  will  launch  a  new  scheme  for  rural  transportation.    We  are 

commercialising the lithium ion battery. Even normal vehicles will operate through 

the  lithium  ion  battery.    The  old  diesel  buses  will  be  refurbished  to  make  them 

operational through lithium ion battery.  Through it we can bring down ticket rates 

by  upto  50  per  cent  and  pollution  will  also  be  reduced  through  it.    A  number  of 

hon. Members have presented their views with regard to over loading, lane driving, 

over  speeding  and  ambulance.    This  is  true  that  we  have  not  been  able  to  make 

available  ambulances  in  large  numbers  even  now.    It  was  our  endeavour  to  keep 

them  at  a  distance  of  every  50  kms.    We  have  created  a  'red  zone'  where  the 

number of accidents is more.  Our first priority is to provide ambulance service to 

this 'red zone'.  We have asked the Sirdi Sai Sansthan to donate us ambulances. We 

will  operate  them  with  their  names  disclosed  on  those  ambulances.    If  any  NGO 

comes forward to undertake this work under CSR, we welcome them.  We need to 

provide  training  with  regard  to  lane  driving  also.    As  such,  in  the  2000  driving 

training  centers  across  the  country,  drivers  will  be  given  training  with  regard  to 

manners,  etiquettes,  system,  laws-  everything,  in  an  effort  to  bring  about 

improvement in this regard.  We will set up cameras across urban areas to monitor 

over speeding.  Some financial difficulties are coming in this regard.   Problem of 

overloading  is  everywhere.    For  this  purpose,  we  are  now  installing  weighing 

bridges at 38 places on  National Highways.  We have provided for hefty fines in 

this  regard.    We  will  set  up  logistic  parks  to  bring  down  the  logistic  cost.    At 

present, we have started a number of works with regard to inland waterways and in 

respect of the Ganges.   

 

My first priority is water transportation, second is railways and the third one 

is road transportation.  We are bringing about a lot of changes in the transportation 

sector.    We  have  introduced  five  new  technologies  in  this  regard.    We  are 

launching Sky Bus.  For this purpose, we have floated tenders for a 70 km. stretch 

between Dhaula Kuan and Manesar.  Before that, we are going to start the work on 

three trial projects within a month.   

 

This  House  has  passed  the  Bill  to  launch  inland  waterways  in  111  rivers 

across the country.  65 river ports on Brahmputra and 40 on the Ganges have been 

sanctioned.  With a loan from the World Bank, we have started work on dredging 

from Varanasi to Haldia, Haldia to Bay of Bengal and in the river Brahmputra.  An 

agreement has been signed with Bangladesh yesterday only to undertake this work 

upto to Chittagong of Bangladesh where the river  Brahmputra flows.   Many hon. 

Members  have  expressed their  concern over  drunken driving  which  results in  too 

many  road  accidents.    We  have  written  to  the  Home  Ministry  in  this  regard  to 

amend the IPC to ensure provision of stringent action.  I have written a letter to the 

Education Ministers of States also requesting them to introduce some good lessons 

regarding  road  safety  in  primary  and  middle  schools.    We  are  trying  to  spread 

awareness in this regard through cartoons, advertisements and radio as well.  The 

Supreme Court has given a verdict with regard to good samaritans.  We are trying 

to bring in its ambit doctors and nurses also to ensure protection to them.  We will 

issue  a  executive  order  in  this  regard.    This  Bill  also  provides  for  action  against 

those making wrong DPR of roads.  The functioning of the transport check posts at 

the  borders  of  the  states  is  also  not  good.    We  will  not  tolerate  any  type  of 

corruption in the transportation sector at any cost. Corruption will be  stamped out 

after  putting  in  place  online  governance.    We  will  be  able  to  bring  about 

comprehensive  improvement  through  this  Bill  in  regard  to  driving  licenses  and 

vehicle  registrations. This  Bill  will be helpful  in  providing  simplified  and  quality 

services  to  the  citizens.    This  Bill  envisages  automation  and  computerisation.    It 

will pave the  way  for  a  wide  ranging transformation in  rural-urban  transportation 

and  the  last  mile  connectivity.    The  road  accident  victims  will  get  compensation 

expeditiously.  A committee is being constituted in every district.  This committee 

is being entrusted with the responsibility of road safety with regard to that district.  

Wherever there is an accidental spot or black spot in any municipal road, National 

Highway, State Highway and city roads rectification and repairing of the same may 

be ordered to the concerned authority.  By the time our Government completes its 

five year tenure, we will be able to save the lives of at least 50 per cent people.  We 

are constructing 23 km. of road per day.   This is  a record.  However, the day we 

are able to save the lives of 50 per cent people, that will be our best achievement.  

This is our mission.  The issue of road safety has been taken very seriously by the 

government.    Members  are  welcome  to  give  suggestions  anytime  and  if  we  feel 

that  the  suggestions  are  worth  implementing  then  we  shall  definitely  implement 

them.    I  would  like  to  assure  the  judiciary  that  this  government  is  very  much 

sensitive towards bio-fuel, alternative fuel, minimizing pollution,  modifications in 

automobiles, safety and road engineering sectors but the government need time to 

make decisions in this regard.  Government has to take decision with an integrated 

approach keeping in view the interests of all the stakeholders.  Lastly, government 

is going to  make Euro-6 emission norms  mandatory from 1st April, 2020 to curb 

the pollution.  I have a firm belief that this Bill will safeguard the nation's interest 

and  will  be  helpful  in  saving  the  lives  of  people  and  it  will  also  bring  a  major 

change in this sector.  

 

