 There has been no increase in the total 

percentage of reservation for Scheduled Castes.  So, inclusion of more castes in the 

list would be a burden on the castes which are already in the list.  In the Budget, it 

has  been  stated  that  the  SC  and  ST  communities  will  be  given  reservation  and 

facilities, but only a meager fund has been allocated for this purpose in the budget.  

So, how come their development can be ensured.  The SC, ST sub-Plan has been 

removed in the Budget.  Implementation of the schemes meant for them as well as 

achieving  the  targets  of  these  schemes  will  be  difficult  to  achieve  due  to  non-

receipt of adequate funds.   I would like to draw the attention of the hon. Minister 

towards the outstanding amount of Rs. 12 thousand crore meant for the post-metric 

scholarship  of  last  year  for  the  SC/ST  students.    For  the  welfare  of  the  SCs  and 

STs,  there  should  be  legislation  to  the  effect  that  the  Sub-Plans  of  SCs  and  STs 

should  be  made  mandatory  at  the  level of  Central  and  State  Governments  so  that 

we can take care of the welfare and ensure benefits to the SC and ST communities. 

 

*SHRI  CHARANJEET  SINGH  RORI:  Dalits  are  being  discriminated 

against.  All kinds of atrocities are being perpetrated on dalits in different states.  I 

hail  from  Haryana  and  90  per  cent  children  belonging  to  SC  &  ST  communities 

                                                           
* Original in Punjabi 

studying in government schools hail from very poor families. These students find 

themselves  at  the  receiving  end.    No  teachers  are  there  in  government  schools.  

These  students  do  not  have  books.    The  school  buildings  are  in  a  dilapidated 

condition.  This  is  because  mostly  students  belonging  to  dalit  community  are 

studying  in  these  government  schools.  So,  these  schools  are  a  picture  of  neglect.  

Untouchability  is  being  brazenly  practiced  in  these  schools.    The  Haryana 

Government  must  ensure  that  this  government  schools  are  provided  all  facilities.  

Besides,  the  reserved  seats  are  not  being  filled.    There  is  no  reservation  in 

promotion. The  dalit  employees  are  being  victimized. All these  issues  need  to  be 

looked into on priority basis. 

 

