 This Bill seeks to amend Section 20 

and  empower  the  Government  to  notify  a  class  of  securities  for  the  purpose  of 

investing trust money.  The scope of this Bill when enacted would be restricted to 

private  trusts  registered  under  the  Act.    We  all  know  that  there  are  two  types  of 

Trusts  -  private  and  public.    There  are  State  laws  relating  to  Trusts.    Under  the 

Income Tax Act, taxation of private trust is different from that of public, religious 

and  charitable  endowments.    The  Indian  Trusts  Act  applies  to  private  trusts  only 

and  has  no  application  to  public,  religious  and  charitable  endowments.    Why  the 

Government is not formulating a model legislation covering trusts and societies in 

lieu  of  the  existing  laws  on  societies,  trusts,  endowments,  charitable  institutions, 

etc.  It is necessary to look into the recommendations of the Law Commission of 

India  afresh.    Today  the  Societies  Registration  Act,  1860,  the  Religious 

Endowments Act, 1863, the Indian Trusts Act, 1882, the Charitable and Religious 

Trusts Act, 1920 and the Waqfs Act, 1995.  The Law Commission of India looked 

into  the  matter  afresh  and  considered  the  recommendations  made  by  the  Second 

Administrative  Reforms  Commission  and  gave  its  Report  to  make  a  model 

legislation.    That  Report  is  still  awaited.    How  long  will  it  take  and  what  is  the 

present  position?    This  Bill,  as  has  been  introduced  by  the  Minister,  proposes  to 

confer  greater  autonomy  and  flexibility  on  trustees  of  private  trusts  as  regards 

investment of trust money.  The proposed charges are consistent, I would say, with 

the current economic environment.  EPFO management has decided to invest five 

per cent of its incremental deposits in ETFs only during the current fiscal.  I would 

like to understand from the Government what are the other bodies which are going 

to invest in this, on which the Government is going to give permission.  I support 

the Bill.   

 

