  First  of  all  we  must 

improve the skills and that is our agenda.    The 

second 

thing 

is 

about 

employability.    Today,  IIIT's  employability  is  very  good  but  it  can  be  further 

improved.   We have to take them on case to case basis and see which institutes are 

lacking.    Similarly,  every  institute  has  to  learn  from  each  other.    With  regard  to 

hackathon,  we  will  expand  it  and  I  am  hoping  that  this  year,  more  than  60,000 

students  will  participate.    As  far  as  OUAT  Agriculture  is  concerned,  I  will 

definitely  pass  on  this  request  to  the  hon.  Minister  of  Agriculture.    As  has  been 

rightly mentioned, the appointment of IIIT Director cannot be done by another IIIT 

Director.  Therefore, it has to be one step above.  Therefore, in BoG, the Director 

has  always  got  weightage  and  that  will  be  there.    Another  good  thing  is  about 

foreign faculty, foreign students and the concept of learning in diversity.  As far as 

corporate  social  responsibility  is  concerned,  institute's  social  responsibility  is  not 

Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.  As you all know, we are going ahead in Swachh Bharat 

Abhiyan.    As  far  as  Bihar  is  concerned,  there  are  so  many  Central  Institutes  in 

Bihar.  We do not discriminate any State.  With regard to GER, it has now passed 

26 per cent and we will achieve 30 per cent by 2020.  We have also said that merit-

based  selection  is  essential  and  upgradation  and  upskilling  of  the  faculty  and 

faculty  development  programme  is  also  important.    The  Tribal  and  Central 

Universities  in  Andhra  Pradesh  is  also  on  track.    All  institutes  and  infrastructure 

would be completed.  Before 2019 elections, you will be proud to say that we have 

completed.  Let me tell that IIT Patna has six engineering institutes and it is a full-

fledged discipline and is one of our pride possession institutes.    

The Bill was passed. 

 

