  Today,  the  Constitution  (One  Hundred  and 

Nineteenth)  Amendment  Bill  2013,  has  been  presented  to  this  august  House  to 

ratify  India-Bangladesh  Land  Boundary  Agreement.    When  the  Radcliffe  Award 

was signed, it was decided that a 4096 km. long boundary will be drawn between 

India  and  East  Pakistan.    Out  of  that  262  Km  stretch  would  be  with  Assam,  856 

Km  with  Tripura, 318  Km  with  Mizoram, 433  km  with  Meghalaya  and  2217 km 

long  boundary  would  be  drawn  with  West  Bengal.    However,  complete 

demarcation could not be done and problems cropped up in those enclaves where 

Indians and Bangladeshis were scattered.  Many attempts were made to solve these 

problems but to no avail.  In December, 1949, an Indo-Pakistan Boundary Dispute 

Tribunal was set up but no solution could be found.  Thereafter on 10 September, 

1958  the  Nehru-Noon  pact  was  signed.  On  16th  May,  1974,  Indira-Mujib  Treaty 

was  signed  in  Delhi.    The  Parliament  of  India  is  trying  to  ratify  the  pact  after  so 

many  years  by  passing  this  Bill.    Today  in  the  interest  of  West  Bengal  and  the 

entire  country,  when  we  are  going  to  usher  in  a  new  era  by  ratifying  the  Indira-

Mujib  Pact  as  well  as  the  treaty  signed  by  Shri  Manmohan  Singh  and  Sheikh 

Hasina  on  6th  September,  2011,  we  must  look  into  every  aspect.  People  of  India 

and Bangladesh want to see development in both the sides of Padma.  They want 

jobs  for the  jobless, education  for the  illiterates  and  food  for the  hapless.   Thus I 

also have some demands to put forth. Firstly, we need access to road.  The entire 

North Eastern region has to take a detour via Siliguri.  I demand the road access, 

rail access and river access or sea link.  I hope that the government will definitely 

sign  some  more  pacts  to  this  effect  after  the  passage  of  this  Bill.  We  are  making 

promises that whoever will come from the other side of the boundary will be given 

Indian  citizenship  but  I  demand  that  not  only  citizenship, but  all  other  rights  and 

facilities  like  Aadhar  card,  Voter  Card,  Gas  connection,  and  the  new  insurance 

scheme, Jan Dhan Account, educational rights, infrastructure etc. While supporting 

this Bill, I demand that Dahagram and Angraopte should remain a part of India and 

Teenbigha corridor should be done away with.  A new Tetulia corridor should be 

created because if I need to go to Teesta point from Dashpara-Chopra via Siliguri, 

the distnace in 117 km but if we use Tetulia corridor it comes down to 26 km.  If 

immigration corridor is made functional then the distance will be reduced to 26 km 

from 56 km. 

 

