    Nizam  Sugar  Factory  was 

one  of  the  largest  and  technologically  most  advanced  sugar  factories  built  before 

independence.  It was the largest in the whole of Asia.  After Independence, it went 

down  and  was  privatized.    It  was  bought  by  several  private  players.    Even  those 

private players who are running it are facing losses.  Cess is actually meant to help 

the  farmers.  Now,  the  argument  is,  this  cess  will  not  increase  the  price  and  the 

counter-argument  is,  this  cess  will  not  reduce  the  price.    The  surplus  domestic 

sugar  production  in  the  last  five  years  and  the  global  surplus  resulted  in  excess 

inventories  with  sugar  mills.  However,  our  import  and  Export  Policy,  as  our 

honourable Member, Shri Srinivasa Reddy mentioned, is not adequately supporting 

the  farmers.    Around  12  private  sugar  mills  were  closed  in  April,  2015  due  to 

financial constraints.  Before one month of the end of the crushing season, almost 

100 lakh tonnes of cane was yet to be crushed.  There needs to be a solution and 

the Government envisaged on this solution. We have compulsory ethanol blending. 

Right now, less than two per cent of ethanol is being blended in petrol.  Out of ten 

percent, we have barely reached two per cent.  But even more important.  There is 

a  company  in  Mumbai  called  Praj  Engineering.    We  have  exported  distilleries  of 

Germany  and  Brazil  and  in  that  technology  or  distillation  plant,  we  are  ahead  of 

most of the countries.  There we have the best of the distilleries, we have a lot of 

sugarcane  but  we  import  all  these  items.    So,  somewhere  something  is  not 

matching. We need to re-examine this.  

 

SHRI  P.K.  BIJU:   This Sugar Cess (Amendment) Bill 2015 introduced in 

Lok Sabha on 11th December, 2015.  This Bill proposes to amend the Sugar Act 

1982.  The rate of Sugar Cess is notified by the Central Government from time to 

time.  This  cess  has  been  proposed  to  meet  the  Government's  expenditure  on 

intervention  to  ensure  payment  due  to  the  sugarcane  farmers.  We  have  no  sugar 

policy today.  We had a heated discussion in this. At that time the sugar price was 

very low.  In fact, it was only Rs. 12.50.  We exported sugar to other countries at 

that rate.  At the same time we imported sugar from other countries at Rs. 30.  That 

is why a sugar policy is very much important.  I would like to ask the Minister as 

to what is the present thinking of the Government regarding the sugar policy. 800 

farmers  committed  suicide  this  year  including  the  sugarcane  farmers.      It  is  very 

important Bill.  We use 90 percent of production. Sugar price impacts every other 

food item.  The mill owners owe the farmers.  This money is there in their hands.  

It is not given to the farmers till date.  When we give that directly to the farmers 

then only  we  can  change  the present system.   India's import price of sugar is Rs.  

2200  per  tonne.    But  the  cost  of  production  is  around  Rs.  3100  per  tonne.  So,  it 

should be increased.  

 

