  This  Bill  provides  for  the  care,  protection  and 

rights  of  children.   There  are  so  many  religions  where  children  take  the  religious 

diksha.   If a  child takes such  diksha  at  the  age of 8  or 12  he neither has his own 

house  nor  relation  with  his  parents,  he  renounces  the  world  and  becomes  an 

ascetic.  Is this Bill going to cover these children also? 

 

THE  MINISTER  OF  WOMEN  AND  CHILD  DEVELOPMENT 

(SHRIMATI MANEKA SANJAY GANDHI) replying said: The procedures for 

treatment  of  children  who  commit  heinous  crimes  in  the  age  group  of  16  to  18 

years are well laid down in the Bill. There is no arbitrariness in the Bill with regard 

to  procedure.    So,  there  is  no  violation  of  article  21  of  the  Constitution  which 

provides  for  right  to  life  and  personal  liberty.    The  proposed  Bill  is  not  in 

contradiction with the international instruments to which India is a party.  Different 

countries have adopted different age of criminal responsibility such as in England, 

it is 10 year; in Australia, it is 10 years; in Argentina, it is 16 years and in France, it 

is  13  years.    Given  the  reality  that  children  tend  to  mature  faster  and  at  much 

younger  age, it  is important  to  define the age of  criminal  responsibility  at  a  level 

which is in tune with the current scenario.  Further, clause 16 of the United Nations 

Rules for the Protection of Juvenile Deprived of their Liberty, 1990, state that these 

Rules  are  to  be  implemented  in  the  context  of  the  economic,  social  and  cultural 

conditions prevailing in the country.  Recognizing that the ultimate aim of juvenile 

justice system is to ensure reformation of the child and to make him a contributing 

member  of  the  society,  many  provisions  have  been  made  in  the  Bill.    These 

include:  individual  care  plans,  counseling,  community  service,  education,  skill 

development,  behaviour  modification  therapy  and  psychiatric  support.    The  Bill 

ensures that no child is sent to jail and remains within the JJ System till the age of 

21  years.    It  is  proposed  that  every  State  and  UT  will  have  at  least  one  place  of 

safety to keep children who commit heinous offence. The Bill ensures that no child 

for committing any offence either under the JJ Act or under any other law can be 

sentenced  to  death  or  given  life  imprisonment  without  the  possibility  of  release.  

Coming to the issue of crime statistics that some of the Members had referred to, it 

is important to remember that data released by the National Crime Records Bureau 

is the only authentic.  We should not blame poverty only for crimes, specially the 

heinous  ones.    Law  cannot  be  lopsided  and  ignore  the  rights  of  the  victims.  The 

suffering  of  a  victim  of  single  heinous  offence  is  equally  worthy  of  action 

irrespective of the fact whether the offence was committed by a child or an adult.  

It was also highlighted that we need to look at the socio-economic background of 

children  who  commit  heinous  crimes.    Poverty  cannot  be  used  as  an  excuse  to 

commit  such  crimes.    In  most  of  these  cases  also,  these  crimes,  specially  the 

heinous  crimes  are  committed  against  the  poor  and  justice  cannot  be  denied  to 

them just because they are poor.  The proposed Bill is based on the principles and 

structures of the existing Act which has been in operation for more than 14 years.  

As the changes proposed in the existing Act were plenty, the Ministry advised us to 

repeal  the  existing  Act  and  enact  a  new  one.  Therefore  a  new  law  is  being 

proposed.  We  have  brought  in  something  called  Foster  Care  for  the  first time  in 

India  where  a  child  can  be  taken  by  the  family  who  do  not  necessarily  want  to 

adopt  the  child  and  give  it  financial  strength  but  are  prepared  to  home  the  child, 

love  him,  send  him  to  school  and  take  care  of  his  emotional  needs.    We  will 

generate  the  money  for  helping  these  children.  This  Bill  is  all  about  wonderful 

things  like  that.    The  Ministry  of  Women  and  Children  Development  is 

implementing  a  Centrally  Sponsored  Scheme  -  The  Integrated  Child  Protection 

Scheme (ICPS) since 2009-10 to provide financial resources to States/UTs for the 

effective implementation of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000.  We have ensured that 

the  Bill  provides  for  sufficient  rehabilitation  and  social  reintegration  measures.  

Various  non-institutional  mechanism  provided in the  Bill include  adoption, foster 

care,  sponsorship  etc. 

  The  Ministry  has  also  thoroughly  examined  the 

recommendations  of  the  Parliamentary  Standing  Committee.    Based  on  the 

suggestion  of  the  Committee,  we  have  added  two  new  clauses  on  awareness 

generations and monitoring.  I would like to submit that the Bill before this august 

House is not just about the issue of lowering the age of Juvenile crime.  In view of 

the increasing incidents of heinous crimes by Juvenile on one hand and the voice 

of  the  child  rights  activists  on  the  other  hand,  we  have  achieved  a  fine  balance 

between the two aspects through the instrument of a two-stage assessment process.  

The  orders  of  the  Juvenile  Justice  Boards  have been  made  appealable  at  both the 

stages.  Therefore, while the inherent rights of the child will not be compromised 

under any circumstances in this process, the Bill, when enacted, will also provide a 

minimum  deterrence  to  the  Juveniles  from  ruining  their  future  and  the  victim's 

future by committing heinous crimes.   

The Bill, as amended, was passed. 

 

 

