  It is a salutary  move.  Now the only question 

is, out of 24 High Courts, we are having basically no original jurisdiction in twenty 

High Courts.  My submission to the hon. Minister would be that in all these four 

High  Courts,  there  is  no  need  of  having  an  original  jurisdiction.    Therefore,  to 

create uniformity all over the country, in four High Courts, that is, Delhi, Kolkata, 

Chennai  and  Mumbai,  this  original  jurisdiction  should  be  taken  away  and 

uniformity should be maintained. 

 

THE MINISTER OF LAW AND JUSTICE (SHRI D.V. SADANANDA 

GOWDA)  replying  said:  As  far  as  pecuniary  jurisdiction  of  Delhi  High  Court  is 

concerned, the Coordination Committee of the Bar Association of Delhi has been 

representing  at  various  forums  to  enhance  the  pecuniary  jurisdiction  of  the  Delhi 

Court from the existing amount of Rs. 20 lakhs to Rs. 2 crore.  The property value 

in and around Delhi has increased by manifold.  This Bill which seeks to raise the 

pecuniary  jurisdiction  of  District  Courts  from  Rs.  20  lakh  to  Rs.  2  crore,  will 

reduce the workload of the High Court and people living in far flung areas of Delhi 

would not have to cover considerable distances for approaching Delhi High Court 

to seek justice.  Almost 3.6 crore cases are pending right from the Supreme Court 

up to the subordinate courts in various parts of the country.  I would like to place 

on  record  that  in  last  December  a  Mega  Lok  Adalat  was  held  in  almost  all  the 

courts  across  the  country  and  nearly  44  lakh  pending  cases  were  disposed  of.  

Moreover,  increasing  the  number  of  judges  in  various  courts  has  also  been  taken 

care of.  Now there are around 1,100 High Court judges.  We have already written 

letters to the Chief Ministers and Chief Justices of various High Courts to see that 

all necessary steps are taken for filling up of the vacancies of judges and disposal 

of  the  cases.    As  far  as  fixation  of  pecuniary  jurisdiction  is  concerned,  it  comes 

under the prerogative powers of the State Government after due consultation with 

the  High  Court.    At  present,  this  is  the  proper  step  that  has  been  taken  by  the 

Government. 

The Bill was passed. 

 

