  I rise to speak in support but in 

conditional  support  of  the  Bill.    We  all  know  that  the  growth  of  technology  is 

revolutionizing the way we all lead our lives.  This is relatively a new Science and 

I am very pleased that India is very much in the forefront in Biotechnology.   The 

applications  in  the  modern  biotechnology  have  a  great  future  here.    The 

applications of modern biotechnology have a great future here, same for the world.  

It  holds  great  potential  to  give  us new  solutions  on  the  health and  quality  of  life, 

the  significant 

improvements 

in  agricultural  productivity  and  sustaining 

development.   I am increasingly convinced that biotechnology has the potential to 

replace  information technology  as the  main  engine  for development of  India  and, 

indeed, of the world.  This Bill will grant the new institution in Faridabad set up in 

2009,  the  status  of  an  Institution  of  National  Importance.    I  do  want  to  point  out 

that  in  my  Constituency  of  Thiruvananthapuram,  the  Rajiv  Gandhi  Centre  for 

Biotechnology  was  established  seven  years  before  the  institution  in  Faridabad  in 

2002.  I  have  also  been  requesting  its  upgradation  to  a  status  of  an  Institution  of 

National  Importance.  The  question  of  regulating  biotechnology  has  to  move  side 

by side.  I am all in favour of us cooperating with UNESCO.  I have welcomed the 

fact that we want to be a hub for the other countries of South Asia and South East 

Asia.    The  purpose  of  regulation  must  be  the  protection  of  the  Indian  people.    I 

would request the Hon. Minister to look at the Regulatory Authority Bill, to look at 

the patent structures in the country, to look further at the inadequate infrastructure 

that  is  hobbling  our  biotechnology  companies  and,  finally,  to  encourage  our 

biotechnology companies and academic institutions to work together.  It would be 

very helpful if they were encouraged in the first  place to have a relationship with 

private sector companies so that they can do collaborative research with industrial 

applications  and  marketing  potential.    I  would,  therefore,  like  to  express  our 

support for the passage of this Bill. 

 

