  In  the  Budget  2017-18,  foremost 

priority  has  been  given  to  the  peasant  community.    As  we  know  agriculture  is  a 

backbone of the economy of our country.  The contribution of agriculture sector in 

GDP is 18 per cent and 65 per cent of our population is dependent on agriculture 

for  their  livelihood.    Proposals  made  with  regard  to  enacting  model  laws  for 

contract farming by the Government is a welcome step.  Similarly, the Government 

has made all efforts to face the challenges in the agriculture sector.  Various new 

opportunities  are  likely  to  be  available  in  the  agriculture  sector  and  for  the 

peasantry  through  these  positive  budgetary  provisions.    Provisions  made  with 

regard to the digging of new 10 lakh ponds under MNREGA would promote water 

conservation  and  it  will  also  promote  acqua  culture.    Government  has  provided 

Rs.9,000  crore  under  the  Pradhan  Mantri  Fasal  Bima  Yojana.    Apart  from  that, 

credit target have  been  increased  from  Rs.1  lakh  crore to  Rs.10  lakh  crore  which 

will  facilitate  easy  and  affordable  loans  to  the  farmers.    Similarly,  long  term 

irrigation fund schemes would be very beneficial for the states facing acute water 

crisis.    Provisions  of  Rs.20,000  crore  made  for  NABARD  would  strengthen  the 

infrastructure  sector.    Issuing  of  soil  health  card  under  Lab  to  Land  Scheme  has 

been expedited by the Government.  It is my firm belief that India will witness a 

sea change after the implementation of all the schemes run by Union Government 

based  on  Green  Revolution-II,  White  Revolution  and  Blue  Revolution.    I  would 

request  to  set  up  a  Center  for  Cotton  Excellence  and  provide  subsidy  on    fishery 

loans, minimize VAT on agri-tools and to enact agriculture and marketing Act and 

provide loans at the rate of one per cent interest in my Parliamentary Constituency, 

Gujarat.    Apart  from  that,  I  would  like  to  suggest  that  Government  should  take 

steps  to  promote  cooperative  farming  and  it  should  also  consider  to  formulate 

women agriculture policy.  There is also need to promote organic farming and long 

term farming. 

 

