  As  the  backwards  and  dalits 

recognise  the  value  of  their  votes  their  representation  will  rise  in  the  Legislature.  

In the next 50-100 years the backwards and the dalits will have an overwhelming 

presence  in  the  Executive  also.   The  backwards, dalits, poor, the  weaker  sections 

had  reposed  faith  in  the  hon.  Prime  Minister  that  they  would  get  justice  in  all 

organs of governance.  And their faith has not been belied.  However, they are yet 

to  get  adequate  representation  in  Judiciary.    This  should  be  done  even  if  several 

amendments  are  needed.    The  Judiciary  should  honour  the  wishes  of  the 

Parliament.  Otherwise it would be an insult to our democracy.   

 

THE MINISTER OF LAW AND JUSTICE (SHRI D.V. SADANANDA 

GOWDA) replying said:  As far as this Bill is concerned, I would like to base my 

arguments  on  the  Articles  which  are  laid  down  under  the  Constitution.    I  would 

like to draw the attention of the House to Article 142 of the Constitution.  It clearly 

mandates as to how the judgements of the Supreme Court should be responded by 

the  Government.    Any  judgement  that  has  been  rendered  by  the  Supreme  Court 

need to be implemented under article 142(1) of the Constitution.  I do not want to 

clarify much about NJAC because a final verdict has not yet come.  The Parliament 

cannot over write the judgement.  As per the directions of the Supreme Court this 

has been brought as a Bill before the Parliament.  I am only explaining the reasons 

as  to  how  this  could  be  justified.    I  never  said  that  it  is  mandatory  for  the 

Parliament  to  obey  the  judgment.    The  Parliament  is  supreme.    I  do  not  dispute 

that.    An  advocate  for  getting  a  pension  has  to  complete  14  years  of  service.    If 

someone is appointed at the age of 52 or 54, then he is going to retire at the age of 

62 and in that event he will not be eligible for full pensionary benefits.  This is in 

order to give some incentive and see that that there is no discrimination at the stage 

of his retirement.  The other thing is that an advocate after retiring as a judge at 62 

years cannot relocate himself because he cannot practice in the same High Court.  

At present there are huge vacancies.  The judgement of the Supreme Court is only 

advisory to draft this Bill.  Apart from this we have covered other aspects also with 

regard to leave and other things.  There were several anomalies.  They might have 

struck  down the  NJAC  but  subsequently, they  have  continued  the  same  Bench  to 

hear some  more suggestions from various corners and stakeholders.  A few other 

questions have been asked by our friends regarding establishment of the Supreme 

Court  benches  and  High  Court  Benches  in  the  various  parts  of  the  country.  

Specially, article 130 is very clear as far as that matter is concerned.  Unless it is 

concurred  by  the  Chief  Justice  of  India,  the  present  Act  does  not  permit  to  go 

ahead.  As regards the High Court Bench, the State Government with concurrence 

of the Chief Justice of the concerned High Court has to move the papers.  No such 

proposals  have  come  from  any  of  the  State  Government  so  far.    Any  Resolution 

passed by the Legislature itself will not be sufficient in this mater.  Any movement 

by  the  Government  is  not  sufficient.    It  should  be  concurred  by  the  concerned 

Chief Justice of the High Court also.  As far as salaries are concerned, At present, 

the  Chief  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  gets  Rs.  1  lakh  per  month  and  the  Chief 

Justice of the High Court gets Rs.90,000 per month.  That is on par with the Report 

of  the  Law  Commission.    As  far  as  salary  is  concerned,  the  Seventh  pay 

Commission  has  already  submitted  its  Report  to  the  Government  and  the 

Government is  yet  to  finalise it.   As far  as other issues  are  concerned, no  serious 

concern has been expressed by my learned colleagues.  Of course, they expressed 

certain  grievances  against  the  Judiciary.    There  is  a  need  for  some  more  judicial 

reforms. 

The Bill was passed. 

 

