 An amendment was actually effected 

in 2015 where substantive amendments were made and we had certain reservations 

regarding  those  amendments.    So,  again  some  amendments  have  been  proposed.  

When the amendment was given effect to last year, the general perception that was 

created by this Government was that now once the Central Government comes into 

operation, they  will  be  auctioning  all  the  mines,  more  transparency  will  be  there, 

more  money will accrue and that money will also be transferred to the respective 

states.    But  around  six  or  seven  states  had  certain  reservations  that  since  land 

belongs to the state, whenever any lease has to be given; whenever any mining is 

to  be  given  as  prospective  license  or  mining  lease,  then  the  state  has  to  be  taken 

into  confidence.      There  were  at  least  three  rulings  from  the  Supreme  Court  that 

had  established  that  the  State  Governments  had  rights  over  mines  as  well  as  the 

lands  on  which  the  mines  were  located.    Our  party  agrees  with  the  proposed 

amendment  which  would  facilitate  transfer  of  captive  leases  alongwith  the 

respective end user industry.  I would like to impress upon the Minister that when 

the  lease  is  granted  by  the  State  Government,  its  transfer  should  also  be 

permissible  with  the  permission  of  the  respective  state  Government  and  not 

otherwise.    The  Government's  should  not  ignore  the  state  Government  because 

ultimately,  it  is  with  the  help  of  the  State  government  that  mining  can  happen 

actually.  The Central Government may also consider incorporating a provision to 

empower  the  State  Government  to  permit  transfer  of  a  mining  lease  from  one 

Government  company  to  another.    The  amendment  provision  of  Section  6(1)(b) 

regarding  area  limit  is  causing  difficulties  in  increasing  the  limit  on  case  to  case 

basis.  Why  case  to case basis?    So, special  dispensation  in  area  limit  is  required 

for Government companies.  As the Government companies play a very vital role 

in meeting the raw material requirements of the industries, the area limit should be 

relaxed in respect of areas reserved for prospective or mining under Section 17 (a) 

of the MMDR Act. 

 

