 I am thankful to you that you have provided me 

an  opportunity 

to  speak  on  The  Constitution  (Scheduled  Castes)  Order 

(Amendment) Bill, 2016.  The Bill has been introduced by the Government on the 

125th birth anniversary of Baba Saheb Ambedkar which seeks to bring the deprived 

and  marginalized  people  from  Scheduled  Castes  into  mainstream.    Some  of  our 

colleagues were speaking that the incidents of atrocities on Scheduled Castes and 

Scheduled Tribes were going up but the fact is otherwise.  Our Prime Minister has 

oftenly said that the reservation policy will not be reviewed and it will continue to 

exist.    He  dedicated  two  days  of  this  House  to  the  discussion  over  Baba  Saheb 

Ambedkar  which  serves  a  testimony  to  his  commitment  towards  the  architect  of 

the Constitution and the Constitution itself.   I conclude my speech with support to 

the Bill.  

 

SHRI RAVINDER  KUSHAWAHA:  I am on my legs to support this Bill.  

This Bill is an important step towards bringing social justice to the most deprived 

section of the society.  There has been a consistent demand from Uttar Pradesh for 

the  inclusion  of  17  castes  into  the  list  of  Scheduled  Castes.    The  condition  of 

Musahar caste is more pitiable than that of these castes.  Therefore, I would like to 

urge the hon. Minister to include the 17 castes of Uttar Pradesh including Musahar 

into the list of Scheduled Castes.  

 

SHRI CHHOTELAL:  I support the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order 

(Amendment)  Bill,  2016.    Even  after  the  69  years  of  independence,  tribals, 

downtrodden  and  the  poor  are  still  on  the  margin  of  the  society.    The  Kharwar 

caste  is  called  tribes  in  the  five  districts  of  Uttar  Pradesh  and  Gaud,  Cheromajhi, 

Baiga and Kankar are called Kahar in 13 districts of the state.  The various names 

of  a  caste  has  created  misunderstanding  which  needs  to  be  removed.    Moreover, 

Kel, Chero, Musahar should be included in the list of Scheduled Tribes. 

 

