    I  rise  to  support,  on  my  own  behalf  and  on 

behalf of the All-India Trinamool Congress, the Constitution (Amendment) Bill.  I 

would  like  to  congratulate  our  hon.  Minister  of  External  Affairs  for  bringing 

forward this historic legislation before this House.  The roots of the problem that 

we are going to solve in this Parliament later today go back to the tragic partition 

of  1947.      Partition  brought  misery  to  the  people  on  either  side  of  the  lines  that 

were  drawn  on  1947.    These  were  the  Enclaves  that  are  going  to  be  exchanged 

today.  We have to look at this 1974 Agreement and the protocol  signed in 2011 

between  the  Prime  Minister,  Manmohan  Singh  and  the  Prime  Minister,  Shrimati 

Sheikh  Hasina.    We  have  a  carefully  balanced  Bill.    We  are  protecting  and 

promoting  the  national  interests,  the  States  interests,  and  the  human  interest.    I 

have  to  tell  the  External  Affairs  Minister  that  she  has  conducted  consultations  at 

the highest political level as we had wanted, she had spoken several times with our 

Chief Minister of West Bengal, Kumari Mamata Banerjee.  We had also said that 

the Central Government and the State Government of West Bengal will arrive at a 

consensus on the issue relating to the rehabilitation package. I trust, as the External 

Affairs  Minister  has  assured  on  the  floor  of  this  House  that  the  rehabilitation 

package which has been sent to her by the Government of West Bengal on the 6th 

of December, 2014 will be available to the State so that we can build infrastructure 

and  also  give  a  true  life  of  dignity  to  those  in  the  enclaves  who  have  leading  a 

miserable existence for the last 67 years.  That is the most important aspect of this 

Bill.  We are protecting the human interest.  I often hear that this particular piece of 

legislation  and  the  final  settlement  of  the  land  boundary  between  India  and 

Bangladesh  will    help  us  resolve  the  problem  of  illegal  emigration,  smuggling 

across the borders and so on.  I would urge our External Affairs Minister to have 

consultations  with  the  Home  Minister  so  that  a  whole  series  of  integrated  check-

posts can be set up along the India Bangladesh border.  It is because, we want the 

ordinary people to be able to cross without difficulty.  I would like to say that let us 

gift  this  historic  piece  of  legislation  to  the  people  of  the  two  Bengals.    Let  the 

message  go  out  to  the  whole  of  South  Asia  that  we  want peace  and  development 

for the poor and obscure, who live all across this great Subcontinent.  

 

