  Tamil  Nadu  under 

the  dynamic 

leadership  of  hon.  Chief  Minister  has  achieved  excellent  positive  results  in 

eradication  of  child  labour  in  the  State  through  Multi-pronged  and  multi-

departmental  schemes.    The  survey  by  the  Ministry  of  Human  Resource 

Development found a significant dip in school dropouts in Tamil Nadu.  The state 

has also achieved 99.3 per cent school enrollment of children between 6-14 years 

of  age  in  rural  areas,  the  highest  in  the  country.    The  proposed  amendment 

prohibits  the  employment  of  adolescents  aged  14  to  18  years  from  hazardous 

occupations.    The  punishments  in  this  regard  should  be  more  stringent  and  the 

State  Governments  should  be  provided  with  more  powers.    The  list  of  hazardous 

activities  has  been  slashed  from  83  to  3.    The  Bill  should  clearly  state  that  only 

children working for immediate families will not be considered as child labourers.  

The  amendment  prohibits  the  engagement  of  children  below  the  age  of  14  in  all 

occupations and processes so that they are able to enjoy their fundamental right to 

education.    By  justifying  in  law  the  participation  of  children  in  work  before  and 

after school hours, the Bill denies them the time and space to develop and grow as 

citizens with similar choices and opportunities that children from affluent families 

enjoy.    The  amendment  has  also  inserted  a  new  section  that  prohibits  the 

employment  of  adolescents  and  children  in  the  age  group  of  14-18  years.  

However, it prohibits child labour only in mines, in the production of inflammable 

substances  or  explosives  and  the  hazardous  processes.    Thus,  it  actually  gives  a 

legal  sanction  for  the  employment  of  adolescent  children  in  all  other  sectors.  

Indeed,  an  opportunity  to  provide  justice  to  the  most  marginalized  children  in 

India's democracy should be utilized appropriately to eradicate the Child labour in 

toto.   

 

