 The objective of 

this Bill is to consolidate the existing laws on civil matters of admiralty jurisdiction 

of courts, admiralty proceedings on maritime claims, and arrest of ships.  There are 

a  number  of  archaic  and  obsolete  laws  which  are  still  governing  the  maritime 

disputes,  offences  and  problems.    So,  there  is  an  imperative  need  to  have  a 

comprehensive  legislation.    There  is  ambiguity  of  jurisdiction.    The  existing 

admiralty statutes required a relook in order to incorporate contemporary maritime 

practices  and  international  legal  regime.   There  have  been  attempts  to bring  Bills 

on this subject earlier too.  We are all aware of the long journey of this legislative 

document.    In  response  to  the  needs  of  the  modern  economy  and  in  compliance 

with  the  existing  facilities  available  in  other  parts  of  the  world,  the  Bill  was 

necessary.    That  is  why  we  are  supporting  the  legislative  document  without  any 

reservation.    One  of  the  key  features  of  this  Bill  is  admiralty  jurisdiction.    The 

jurisdiction  with  respect  of  maritime  claims  under  the  Bill  will  vest  with  the 

respective high courts and will extend up to the territorial waters of their respective 

jurisdiction.    India  has  territorial  waters  to  the  extent  of  12  nautical  miles.  

Thereafter  starts  the  Exclusive  Economic  Zone  up  to  200  nautical  miles.    The 

Central  Government,  as  per  the  Bill,  may  extend  the  jurisdiction  of  these  high 

courts  by  notification  up  to  the  Exclusive  Economic  Zone.    Here  I  would  like  to 

ask whether you have any  mechanism to extend the ambit of the courts up to the 

Exclusive Economic Zone.  The high courts may exercise jurisdiction of maritime 

claims  arising  out  of  several  conditions.  Now  a  days, the sea across the  globe is 

under the threat of hazardous toxic elements.  How much of the authority is being 

enjoyed  under  this  Bill  so  that  he  maritime  lien  provision  should  be  applicable?  

One of the objectives of this Bill is to dispose of the claims in an expeditious way.  

Therefore,  the  Bill  is  proposed  o  repeal  four  archaic  admiralty  laws  on  civil 

matters.  The Bill will focus on wrongdoer.  It covers every vessel irrespective of 

the  place  or  residence  or  domicile  of  owner.    However,  warships  and  naval 

auxiliary or other vessels used for un-commercial purposes are beyond its purview. 

There  is  a  very  significant  aspect  so  far  as  notification  is  concerned  because  by 

issuing  notification  the  Bill  can delegate more  powers  to the  courts  of  the littoral 

states.  The Supreme Court may, on application by any party, transfer an admiralty 

proceeding at any stage from one High court to any other High Court.  The latter 

High Court will proceed with the matter from the stage where it stood at the time 

of the transfer.  Regarding Assessor, the Central Government will appoint a list of 

Assessors qualified and experienced in the admiralty and maritime matters.  What 

are the criteria for selecting those Assessors?  Do we have any regulation on ship 

breaking  industry  to  compete  with  the  global  level?    I  am  saying  it  because  our 

ship breaking has been causing enormous pollution in our country.  

 

