 When a uniform tax regime is going to 

come  into  effect  from  1st  July, 2017, the  Indirect  Taxation  proposals  do  not  have 

any  significance  in  this  Finance  Bill  because  the  Indirect  Taxation  proposals  are 

coming in the GST Bill in the near future.  Therefore, I am directly coming to the 

Income Tax Proposals. The only reservation which I would like to make in respect 

of income tax is instead of giving rate of tax, those who are having an income of 

more  than  Rs.50  lakh,  you  are  imposing  a  surcharge  and  you  are  not  imposing  a 

rate  of  tax.    The  entire  purpose  is  to  avoid  the  sharing  of  Central  taxes  with  the 

State  tax  for  which  I  raise  my  objection.  That  has  to  be  reviewed  because  the 

surcharge and cess will not come within the purview of the divisible pool.  That are 

means the States are only getting 35 per cent of the gross tax revenue of the Centre 

and  instead  of  42  per  cent.  That  has  to  be  corrected.    My  second  point  is  with 

regard to the Customs Duty.  In the last year's Budget, you have imposed five per 

cent customs duty on imported raw cashew nuts.  After imposing five per cent of 

Customs  Duty  on  raw  cashew  nut  and  Special  Additional  Duty  plus  cess,  it  will 

come to around 9.36 per cent.  Therefore, I demand to the Government to withdraw 

the  five  per  cent  of  Customs  Duty  on  raw  cashew  nuts.    Regarding  the  Customs 

Duty of titanium dioxide pigment in order to protect the indigenous production and 

the indigenous industry, I demand to the Government to enhance the Customs Duty 

from 10 per cent to 20 per cent.  Coming to another point and that is with regard to 

FRBM review and Debt GDP ratio.  The states revenue has declined like anything 

because of the demonetization. The existing debt GDP ratio is 20-27 per cent.  The 

debt GDP ratio has to be increased. With regard to demonetization, I demand that a 

white paper be issued in respect of the demonetization process as a whole.  Coming 

to  the  last  point  regarding  the  transparency  in  the  political  funding  also.    I  urge 

upon the Chair and also the Speaker to have a special Session to discuss about the 

electoral reforms to be implemented in our country.   

 

