 The Government 

claims  that  it  is  an  exhaustive,  aggressive  and  progressive  legislation.    But  there 

may  be  inexhaustive  suggestions  and  there  may  be  inexhaustive  promises  and 

demands which also should be taken note of.  Decades have passed when we are 

still  undergoing  the  HIV  and  AIDS  epidemic  and  still  profound  stigma  and 

discriminations are attached with the lives of those suffering from this disease.  So, 

first of all, my suggestion to the Government is that mass awareness is the need of 

the hour. Without comprehensive mass awareness programme, Government would 

not  be  able  to  get  the  common  people  away  from  the  spectre  of  the  stigma  and 

discrimination.    However,  most  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Standing 

Committee  have  been  accommodated  in  this  legislation.    Integration  of  HIV  and 

AIDS  intervention  in  Primary  Healthcare  System  has  taken  place  in  India  from 

2010  onwards  and  during  2016,  India  pledged  to  follow  targets  to  fast  track  the 

pace  of  progress  towards  ending  HIV/AIDS  as  a  public  health  threat  in  the  next 

five  years,  and  ending  the  epidemic  by  2030.    We  are  also  aware  that  this 

Government  is  pursuing  the  Sustainable  Development  Goal  whereby  it  has  been 

committed  that  by  2030,  the  AIDS  and  HIV  epidemic  will  be  wiped  out.    To 

implement  the  Sustainable  Development  Goal,  the  Government  requires  funds  to 

the mind-boggling amount of Rs.55 lakh crore.  So, I do not know, how the funds 

will be mobilized by the Government.  I would like to know from the Government 

about  its  fast-track  target  and  that  are  the  fast-track  targets.    The  Bill  misses  the 

Fast-Track  target  of  2020  about  which  I  would  like  to  be  enlightened  by  the 

Government.  I would also like to know the rate of HIV that has turned into full-

blown  AIDS  in  India.  The  Government  should  issue  a  clarion  call  to  each  and 

every Indian that we are striving and we need a vision of zero new HIV infection, 

zero  discrimination  and  zero  AIDS  related  deaths.  India  records  around  68,000 

fatalities  every  year  from  Acquired  Immuno  Deficiency  Syndrome  and  related 

infections.    Whereas  the  National  AIDS  Control  Organization's  budget  has  been 

reduced by  a  whopping  22 per cent  which  left the  State  Governments to  fend  for 

themselves.  There is a controversy over Section 14(1) of this Legislation.  The Bill 

has  not  addressed  the  demand  for  the  removal  of  four-word  phrase  'as  far  as 

possible'  of  Clause  14(1)  which pertains to  the treatment  of  HIV  affected people.  

The  four  words  'as  far  as  possible'  dilutes  the  objective  with  which  India's  AIDS 

control  programme  has  worked  so  far.  Therefore,  I  would  urge  upon  the 

Government that to dispel the fear of the affected people these four words 'as far as 

possible'  should  be  deleted  from  this  legislative  document.  I  would  like  to  know 

from the hon. Minister whether our blood banks in the States are equipped enough 

to screen the blood which is not tainted with or which is not infected with HIV and 

AIDS.    The  2006  draft  of  the  Bill  was  comprehensive.    It  not  only  protected  the 

rights  of  PLHIV  but  also  the  most-at-risk  population.    The  Bill  does  not  have 

elements  regarding  the  outlines  of  policy  change,  funding  and  normalisation  of 

HIV plus individuals in society.  The Bill has severe drawbacks in terms of fiscal 

responsibility.    The  Bill  provides  for  the  establishment  of  only  one  ombudsman.  

However, we need more  ombudsmen.   Again tuberculosis is  the  leading cause of 

death for people with HIV worldwide.  However, TB can be cured, but I have found 

nothing in this legislation in regard to my contention about TB.  

 

