 The objective of 

this  Bill  is  to  meet  the  quantitative  and  qualitative  gap  in  the  supply  of  skilled 

manpower for the petroleum sector and to promote research activity needed for the 

growth  of  the  sector.    On  behalf  of  my  party  I  congratulate  the  Government  of 

Andhra  Pradesh  for  giving  200  acres  of  land  free  of  cost  to  this  institute.    A 

temporary campus of IIPE has been set up for academic session of 2016-17.  The 

Cabinet has approved a sum of Rs.655 crore as capital expenditure to set up IIPE 

and  a  contribution  of  Rs.200  crore  towards  its  Endowment  Fund  in  addition  to  a 

contribution of Rs.2,000 crore from oil companies towards the Endowment Fund. 

This sector contributes 16-17 per cent to the GDP of our country.  There is a huge 

demand for skilled manpower for the growth of this sector.  Before the assumption 

of  power  by  this  Government,  the  rate  of  crude  oil  in  the  global  market  was 

between $112-115 per barrel.  After this Government assumed power, the crude oil 

has been hovering around $50 per barrel but the benefit of low price has not been 

passed  to  the  people.    Now  the  Government  has  decided  to  scrap  the  subsidies 

altogether which is a anti-poor decision.  The middle class is expanding fast in the 

country and their consumption power is also increasing.   When middle class and 

the  consumption  expands  it  will  result  in  economic  growth  requiring  a  huge 

amount of energy.  We had formulated the Integrated Energy Policy keeping this 

trend in our mind.  We want the Government to focus more on oil and natural gas 

sector.    The  per  capita  energy  consumption  in  our  country  is  low.    Energy 

consumption is likely to grow due to macroeconomic tailwinds.  The Government 

should  adopt  better  policy  in  order  for  the  country  to  move  ahead  fulfilling  its 

requirements.  India has not witnessed any major oil discovery during the last one 

and  a  half  decade  therefore  our  dependence  on  imports  has  been  increased.    We 

need to come over this dependency syndrome.  The experts are of the opinion that 

India  has  a  huge  potential  in  terms  of  shale  gas.    If  we  are  able  to  exploit  it 

optimally then we can rest assured for the next 200 years.    

 

