 Regarding the Bill, I would like to state that auction is 

necessary. In the Bill, it has been stated that the Central Government has received a 

representation  from  industry, associations  stating  that  the  Sub-Section  has  caused 

difficulties  which  does  not  allow  merger  and  acquisition  of  a  company  having 

captive  leases.    Here,  I  would  like  to  know  whether  we  are  working  for  the 

companies  and  the  corporate  or  whether  we  have  to  seek  a  balance  between  the 

interest  of  the  business  community  as  well  as  the  toiling  working  class  also.  

Regarding  the  dumping  of  waste,  I  want  to  say  that  it  has  created  quite  a  lot  of 

problems  and  lives  of  millions  of  people  are  in  peril.    Mines  are  owned  by  the 

industrial  houses, corporate,  millionaires.   There  is  mafia  operating in  the  mining 

sector of India.  The mining sector is one of the important sectors which is giving 

employment for millions and millions of people.  But the labour laws, which have 

to  be  implemented  at  the  grass-root  level  are  not  being  implemented.    If  you  are 

saying  about  inclusive  growth  and  cooperative  federalism  then  the  State 

Government  is  also  one  of  the  stakeholders.  My  humble  request  is  that  a  Bill, 

whether it is a new Bill or any Amendment Bill, should be thoroughly looked into 

and  consultation  with  various  stakeholders  should  be  done  by  the  concerned 

Departmentally-Related  Standing  Committee.    But  the  recommendations  of  the 

Departmentally-Related  Standing  Committees  are  not  being  accepted  by  the 

Government.    We  have  to  protect  the  prerogative  and  the  power  of  the 

Departmentally-Related  Standing  Committees.  Only  in  the  Committees,  we  can 

have  a  thorough  discussion  with  the  concerned  officials,  with  the  trade  union 

leaders,  with  tribal  leaders  and  also  with  various  stakeholders.    So,  their 

recommendations, suggestions, complaints and apprehensions have to come before 

us.  My request is that even though this Bill seems to be a small Bill, this Bill has 

to be sent to the concerned Standing Committee and their recommendations should 

come before the House.  

 

