  The  recent  price  rise  in  the 

essential  commodities  has  hurt  the  common  man.  The  prices  of  pulses  which  is 

nearly a staple diet for most of the country has risen to a large extent from the last 

2 years. There is no supportive government policy which could have helped India 

to  raise  the  pulses  production  by  giving  more  incentives  to  the  farmers  growing 

pulses. The prices of onion has risen nearly 300% or more in the last month. The 

common  plea  given  by  the  government  to  the  people  of  India  during  every  rate 

increase is rising international crude prices. But they should first answer why there 

is double taxation by center and state on sale of petrol and diesel. My first question 

to the respective governments is why cannot these duties be reduced, so that atleast 

the transportation cost for the common commodities is reduced. Now let us come 

to  the  contentious  issue  which  is  common  to  all  the  commodities  price  rise  and 

bone of contention between the government and opposition parties that is forward 

trading.  My  only  point  is  why  do  you  need  speculative  trading  on  the  essential 

commodities. The ever increasing cost of living has once again proven the age old 

theory  of  Survival  of  the  Fittest.  When  the  prices  get  hiked,  substantial  control 

measures have to be employed to check it. Paradoxically, government has seldom 

made efforts to curb it as it considers hike a part of the game. Black markets also 

contribute  massively  to  hike.  Sugar  prices  prove  to  be  a  fitting  example.  The 

profits  of  33  sugar  companies  have  rocketed  by  2900%  to  Rs.  900  crores, 

alongwith  a gigantic increase  in  the sugar  prices. The  reason  being  crop  shortage 

which  was  in  turn  created  due  to  uncontrolled  exports  last  year.  We  could  have 

built buffer stocks, when we had the bumper crop, but we didn't. This facilitated a 

rise in profits of all the export and import companies, while consumers were forced 

to pay much more than what they need to pay for sugar. Politicians have been pro-

commercial rather than pro-people for they have eased this hike with their malign 

usage of political influence in economic interests. The need to the hour is to set up 

specifically dedicated departments to study the trends in economy, which analyse 

the  exports, imports and  domestic  agriculture  condition and propose new policies 

to check the price hike in our country.   

 

