  The  main  feature  of  the  National 

Bank  for  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development  Act  was  to  provide  and  regulate 

credit  and  other  facilities  for  the  promotion  and  development  of  agriculture, 

cottage  and  village  industries.  For  execution  of  projects  under  FPF  and  WIF,  the 

common  difficulties  relate  to  delay  in  according  administration  approval  by  the 

state  governments,  obtaining  state  government  guarantee  and  title  of  land  for 

mortgage,  etc.  but  it  has  not  been  addressed  in  this  Bill.    NABARD  extends  re-

finance to banks for their agriculture lending.  I would like to ask as to whether the 

government  has  taken  stock  of  the  funding  that  is  being  provided  by  RIDF  to 

different  States?    If  certain  states  are  utilizing  NABARD  fund  for  other 

developmental works then, the rural community is being benefited, but is it directly 

having  an  impact  on  the  farmers.    This  is  the  question  which  needs  to  be 

deliberated at the Ministry level and also in this House.  Agriculture credit today is 

actually  the  main  issue  which  needs  to  be  deliberated.    Credit  disbursement  is 

dominated  by  commercial  banks  in  certain  States  and  in  my  State,  it  is  the 

cooperative bank which provides the largest credit to the farmers.  The government 

may  also  consider  taking  up  the  functioning  of  RRBs.    There  has  been  an 

impressive growth in agriculture credit.  But it is a matter of concern that the share 

of  term  loan  in  total  agriculture  credit  disbursed  declined  steadily  from  39.3  per 

cent in 2004-05 to 19.5 per cent in 2014-15.  This is the main reason why we have 

this  much  of  problem  in  our  rural  areas  and  agro  crisis  in  our  country.    The 

challenge before the NABARD is to encourage capital formation through increased 

share  of  long-term  loan  in  agriculture  credit.    I  am  of  the  view  that  a  thorough 

survey  on  credit  needs  to  farmers  for  production,  cultivation,  investment  and 

consumption  purposes  should  be  conducted  under  the  auspices  of  NABARD.  

There  is  a  need  to  galvanise  the  District  Level  Bankers'  Committees.    But  the 

difficulty  that  we  face  is  that  bankers  who  actually  represent  the  banks  in  the 

meeting,  only  just  carry  the  message.    They  do  not  give  any  substantial 

commitment in that meeting.  The Minister may think over it and take certain steps 

which will help everyone.  The NABARD should lend more  directly, eliminating 

the intermediaries as far as possible so that the beneficiary, i.e., farmer can avail of 

the credit in time. 

 

