  The  rising  NPAs  in  the 

country  had  always  been  a  cause  of  concern  inside  the  House  as  well  as  for  the 

economic  experts.   The nationalization of banks during  1960s and 1980s resulted 

in  greater  banking  coverage  and  it  was  felt  that  people  would  get  rid  of  private 

lenders.    However,  the  low  efficiency,  declining  productivity  and  bad  portfolio 

management of banks resulted in declining profitability for the banks as a result of  

which, the public as well as private sector banks faced a plethora of problems.  The 

pressure  on banks  started  mounting.  We  all  might  recall here  the shares scam  of 

1990  and  how  the  then  Government  constituted  Narsimhan  Committee  which  is 

also known as BSR Committee.  The Narsimhan Committee in its report submitted 

in  1993  had  proposed  the  enactment  of  Recovery  of  Debts  Due  to  Banks  and 

Financial Institution Act.  The Government of the day ensured the passage of the 

Act in 1993.  Prior to this the Banks had to take resort to the civil courts in order to 

recover  the  debts  which  resulted  in  significant  loss  of  time.    However,  with  the 

enactment of this DRT Act the Banks could recover their debts without going into 

civil  courts  through  tribunals  and  appellate  tribunals.    However,  the  shelter 

provided to the industries by  BIFR Act acted as a stumbling block in deriving the 

expected outcomes from the DRT Act.  Thereafter, SARFESAI Act was brought in 

Parliament in  2002.   Undoubtedly  this  Act proved as  a  milestone  for  the  banking 

industry in India because it was under the  provision of the Act that the banks got 

the  power  to  sell  the  properties  held  as  collateral  with  them  in  recovery  of  their 

dues  and  they  were  also  given  the  power  to  self-adjudicate  in  this  regard  with 

coming into force in 2004 this law enabled the industry to make positive progress 

in  the  direction  of  reducing  the  burden  of  NPAs.    However,  owing  to  certain 

shortcomings in the existing laws, burden of NPAs continued to increase.  Thus the 

burden of bad debt on the banking system continued to rise.  During the last one to 

one and half years, the bad debt in our economy has increased from a level of Rs. 

2.97  trillion  to  4.37  trillion.    The  number  of  cases  pending  in  various  DRTs  and 

DRATs  is  around  70  thousand.    The  economic  crisis  brought  by  the  global 

recession  in  2010-11  resulted  in  several  industries  facing  liquidity  crunch  which 

further resulted in an increasing stress on our banks.  The present government with 

a view to ensure the recovery of the stressed assets and creating an atmosphere of 

ease  of  doing  business  started  to  take  several  initiatives  for  bringing  in 

comprehensive  economic  and  banking  reforms.    The  hon.  Minister  of  Finance  in 

his  Budget  speech  of  2016  had  expressed  such  a  desire  before  the  august  House 

that  the  government  intends  to  bring  bi-pronged  strategy  to  achieve  the  said 

objective.    As  a  part  of  the  exercise,  the  first  level  of  initiative  included  the 

enactment of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 which was passed by both 

the Houses of the Parliament.  As a part of the second set of initiatives, this Bill has 

been brought and this House is presently discussing it.  This Bill primarily seeks to 

amend four Acts namely SARFAESAI Act; Indian Stamp Act, 1899; Depositories 

Act, 1996 and DRT Act.  Now I would like to mention the proposed amendments 

in the Bill.  When the Banks want to take possession of collateralized properties in 

order to recover their debts they have to seek the prior permission of Collector or 

the  Chief  Metropolitan  Magistrate.   This process  was  very  time  consuming.   The 

proposed Bill has put a time limit of 30 days for it.  The jurisdiction of DRT  has 

been well defined in the Bill keeping in view the very important role being played 

by  them  online  process  has  been  provided  in  DRT.    The  very  concept  of  Central 

Registry for assets has been strengthened under the Act.  Several provisions have 

been made in the Bill for strengthening and streamlining the work of ARCs.  The 

Bill provides for ARCs to be exempt from paying stamp duty for the registration of 

any asset it seeks to transfer in its name during the process of debt recovery.  The 

definition of secured creditors has also been modified in the proposed Bill and the 

debentures  and  trustees  registered  with  SEBI  have  also  been  accepted  as  secured 

creditors. The definition of property has been reworked in the Bill by including all 

the  tangible  and  intangible  assets  under  it.    The  Appellate  jurisdiction  which  had 

been missing under the DRT Act, 1993 has also been defined in this bill.  In this 

Bill,  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  has  been  empowered  to  regulate  the  Asset 

Reconstruction Companies in order to have effective control over them. In case of 

non-compliance  of  the  instructions  of  the  RBI,  the  provision  of  penalty  has  been 

raised  from  Rs. 5  lakh  to  Rs. 1  crore. Such  a  provision  has  been  proposed  as the 

Asset Reconstruction Companies are not able to violate the rights of the borrowers. 

Proposed Amendment Bill and the R.B.C. code, 2016 will not only usher in a new 

chapter  of  economic  reforms  in  the  country  bringing  about  improvement  in  the 

banking  sector of  the  country, Indian  banks  will  not only  be  relieved  of  the  NPA 

burden  but  banks  will  have  a  level  playing  field  on  the  basis  of  the  international 

banking  rules. I  would like to  thank  the Hon. Finance  Minister  for  a  grant of  Rs. 

25,000 crore to the banks in the Budget of 2016-17. I believe that after the passage 

of the proposed Bill, the outcome will be as expected in the economic horizon of 

the country.  

 

