  The  Union  Government  has  tabled 

four  GST  legislations  in  the  Lok  Sabha.    10  groups  have  been  set  up  under 

senior tax  officials  to  examine the  concerns  of  the industry  and submit  reports 

by April 10th.  Most issues have been addressed through feedback but it was felt 

that some sectors having special peculiarities needed a closer look to ensure that 

they were able to make a glitch free shift to the GST.   They have been asked to 

focus  in  particular  on  procedural  simplifications  and  the  rate  structure.    GST 

will  be  the  biggest  reform  in  Indian  taxation  since  1947.    But  there  are  many 

challenges  for  its  successful  implantation.    These  include  getting  acceptance 

from all the stakeholders, the States concerned, the Union Territories and, most 

importantly,  from  the  traders  and  small  industries  sectors.    Through  Revenue 

Neutral  Rate,  the  Government  is  to  ensure  that  its  revenue  remains  the  same 

despite of giving tax credits.  The Government has already incorporated Goods 

and Services Tax Network (GSTN).  We acknowledge that fundamental purpose 

of  GST  is  to  make  India  as  one  State  where  interstate  movement  of  goods  is 

common.    Tamil  Nadu  is  concerned  about  the  impact  the  proposed  GST  will 

have on the fiscal autonomy of States and the huge permanent revenue loss, it is 

likely to cause to the  manufacturing and exporting state like Tamil Nadu.  We 

are  happy  that  some  of  the  concerns  raised  by  us  have  been  addressed.    But 

however,  a  number  of  concerns  of  Tamil  Nadu  still  need  to  be  addressed 

including  the  GST  Council  as  a  constitutional  body  infringes  the  legislative 

sovereignty  of  both  the  Parliament  and  the  State  Legislatures  and  completely 

jeopardizes  the  autonomy  of  the  States  in  fiscal  matters.  Furthermore,  the 

decision making role and voting weightage in the Council are unacceptable. The 

cost  of  agricultural  inputs  will  go  up  since  the  agricultural  implements, 

fertilizers,  seeds  will  also  be  taxed  at  GST  rate  of  25  per  cent.    There  is  an 

apprehension 

that 

the 

implementation  of  GST  will  make 

the  present 

Commercial Tax Department redundant.  I am glad to note that the deliberations 

in the GST Council have been open and many of the concerns raised by us have 

been  accommodated  in  the  spirit  of  give  and  take.  We  have  successfully 

migrated 5.19 lakh dealers out of a total of 6.01 lakh dealers, that is, 86 per cent 

till date.  We are fully geared up as far as IT hardware is concerned.  Software 

customization  is  also  progressing  well.    I  would  like  to  conclude  by  assuring 

that  Tamil  Nadu 

is  fully  committed 

to 

the  roll  out  and  successful 

implementation of the GST. 

 

