 There are two types of borrowers. One type 

of  borrowers  are  those  who  could  not  repay  their  loan  because  of  some 

unavoidable circumstances.  The second type of borrowers is of those who are the 

willful  defaulters.    The  money  of  the  common  persons  is  in  the  banks.  The 

depositors are the small persons, the middle class persons. Out of that deposit, loan 

is  given  to  the  borrowers.  The  big  shorts  are  the  defaulters.  In  March,  2016,  the 

total  amount  of  NPAs  was  Rs.  1,40,000  crore  and  we  have  made  a  budgetary 

provision  of  Rs.  1,25,000  crore.  the  money  goes  out  of  the  Budget  for  this 

provision  is  the  money  which  was  to  be  utilized  for  the  common  persons  of  this 

country and it is used for those defaulters. This Bill seeks to amend four Acts. The 

object  of  the  amendments  proposed  in  the  Bill  is  to  improve  the  ease  of  doing 

business  and  facilitate  investment,  leading  to  higher  economic  growth  and 

development.  Whenever  any  cooperative  bank 

issued  a  notice 

to 

the 

defaulters/borrowers, they approach the courts and obtain stay by arguing that the 

cooperating  banking  industry  is  registered  under  the  State  Cooperative  Societies 

Act and, therefore, it is a ‘society’ and not a ‘bank’. But on the other side, the total 

cooperative banking sector is working under the Banking Regulation Act. Also, the 

Reserve  Bank  of  India  is  making  an  inspection  every  year.  It  means  it  is  totally 

controlled by the Reserve Bank of India. Then, why should this Securitisation Act 

be  not  amended  to  include  the  cooperative  banking  industry  as  well?  The  rate  of 

NPAs is high. If it is to be recovered, then this Act should be applied by them. That 

is why the Government should consider this immediately under this Act. Really, in 

very appropriate time, this Bill is being amended including the four Acts. This will 

help  the  banking  industry,  the  financial  institutions  and  also  the  cooperative 

banking industry, if the Government is going to add it.   

 

