  This Bill seeks to amend four 

Acts  which  the  hon.  Minister  has  just  stated.    These  changes  actually  became 

imminent due to the passing of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015 that this 

House  passed  after 

the  same  Joint  Select  Committee  had  given 

its 

recommendations.    The  Statement  of  Objects  and  Reasons  of  the  Bill  makes  it 

clear  that  this  has  become  necessary  because  of  the  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy 

Code,  2015  and  some  of  the  changes  that  we  see  will  confer  powers  upon  the 

Reserve Bank of India to regulate Asset Reconstruction Companies.  This was the 

requirement  of  the  changing  business  environment.    Apart  from  that,  once  you 

transfer  the  assets  to  an  ARC  then  that  transfer  will  be  exempt  from  the  Stamp 

Duty. Apart from that, we actually enabled non-institutional investors to invest in 

security  receipts,  which  was  not  there  earlier.    Debenture  Trustees  have  been 

included  as  secured  creditors,  and  specific  timelines  have  been  given  to  take 

possession of those secured assets.  Today this Bill may seem comprehensive when 

it  comes  to  reforming  the  financial  sector  yet  again.    But  we  do  need  to  ask 

ourselves  as  to  despite  consistent  reforms  in  this  country  what  is  the  state  of  our 

banking sector, in particularly the public sector banking?  I refer to a report of the 

Standing Committee on Finance chaired by Mr. Veerappa Moilyji which tabled its 

report  on  the  5th  of  February  2016.    It  states  that  as  on  September  2015,  6.2  per 

cent of the total loans of the public sector banks have been categorized as bad loans 

or  NPAs, another 7.9  per  cent  is  restructured  loans.  We  all  have  a  consensus on 

this  Bill,  we  all  agree  that  threes  changes  have  to  be  made,  but  we  also  need  to 

rethink the governing structure that today manages these loan accounts.  The larger 

point that I am trying to make is that we need to do to inject life into our Bills, into 

our Acts.  What is it we have to do to ensure that our policy is not just a piece of 

paper and that when this actually is notified by the Government, it has the intended 

impact.  What as a nation, as government and as Parliamentarians we need to think 

is as to what are the reforms we should make to avoid an asset turning into a non-

performing assets.  By way of example, I would like to say that most banks suffer 

from lack of credit appraisal capabilities.  How can we improve on it?  One of the 

main reasons why assets turn into NPAs, we are unable to detect at the right time, 

when an asset is going to turn into an NPA.  I hope that these amendments that we 

have  introduced  today  in  the  DRT  Act,  in  the  SARFAESI  Act,  achieve  that 

purpose. 

 

