  Sale  of  precious  spurious  and 

substandard articles is an alarming issue.  It concerns the safety and the health of 

the consumers at large.  So, we should ensure standardization to be mandatory for 

each and every item sold.  Non-standard electrical and electronic items, stresses the 

need for a comprehensive legislation.  In Europe, there is 100 per cent compliance 

for  standards.    I  hope  that  India  will  gradually  move  towards  that  direction.  

Without  having  a  certificate  or  license  from  the  Bureau  of  Indian  Standards,  no 

person can make a public claim through advertisements of his goods conforming to 

an  Indian  standard.    Any  person  who  contravenes  this  provision,  shall  be 

punishable  with  imprisonment.    Section  18  makes  obligatory  provision  for  the 

license holder to display the making and labelling requirements of the product.  To 

ensure  quality  and  safety  to  the  consumers,  our  policies  are  well-formulated  in 

painstaking  detail  and  well-intentioned.    Therefore, the  BIS  should  do  away  with 

the  voluntary  scheme  and  make  it  mandatory  for  all  the  products  to  conform  to 

basic  quality  standards.  International  trade  rules  stipulate  that  standards  for 

imported goods need  to be  the  same  as  those  for local  manufacturers.   There  is  a 

need  to  have  standardisation  of  service  sector.    The  current  legislation  also  has 

provisions  to  provide  recall,  including  liability  of  products  bearing  the  standard 

mark  but  not  conforming  to  relevant  Indian  Standards.    Filing  and  pursuing  a 

single complaint case under BIS Act costs about rupees one lakh and about two to 

three  years  litigation.    Undoubtedly,  the  BIS  Act  lacks  teeth.    Enforcement 

machinery of BIS is not very satisfactory.  Hence, BIS should be given complete 

prosecution  powers  to  act  on  every  item.    I  hope  the  Bill  when  enacted,  will 

definitely  promote  harmonious  development  of  the  activities  of  standardization, 

making and quality certification of goods and services.    

 

