  Ministry  of 

Housing  and  Urban  Poverty  Alleviation  is  a  very  important  Ministry.    Out  of  121 

crore  people  who  reside  in  this  country,  38  crore  people  are  residing  in  the  urban 

areas.  And out of 38 crore people, who are residing in the urban areas, 35 per cent 

of  them  qualify  as  poor.    What  is  the  reason  for  this  growing  population  in  these 

urban areas.  It is because of the continuous drought situation prevailing all over the 

country  and  depletion  of  underground  water.    Even  the  Governments  -  respective 

State Governments or the Government of India  - are not being able to improve the 

living conditions of the agriculturists and the farmers.  That is why the people have 

now  started  moving  towards  the  urban  areas.    National  Urban  Livelihood  Mission 

and  Pradhan  Mantri  Awas  Yojana  is  now  being  introduced  by  this  NDA 

Government.  Under which they got a mission to provide 'Housing for All by 2022'.  

We  welcome  it.    But  what  is  the  budgetary  allocation  and  support  for  these  two 

schemes?  The census discloses that upto 2011-12, 1.86 crore people in this country 

are badly in need of shelter.  The requirement of houses by 2022 is 3 crore and 41 

lakhs.    So,  if  really  the  Government  is  concerned  they  should  act  fast.    The  total 

budget allocation for the entire Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation 

(HUPA)  for  2016-17, the amount  earmarked  is only  Rs. 5,411  crore.   If that  is  the 

case can they really reach the target of providing 'Housing for All' by 2022?  For the 

last three years consistently, the allocation of Budget is being reduced.  The amount 

that  was  given  to  the  PMAY  is  about  Rs.  5,075  crore.    The  Standing  Committee 

have express their dissatisfaction about under-utilization of funds in this area.  The 

Parliamentary  Standing  Committee  also  mentioned  that  repeated  change  of  names 

will also create problem and confusion among the Government as well as the people, 

and that is also one of the reasons for underutilization of funds.  As on 1st March, 

2016 only 5,08,902 houses are sanctioned or under construction.  If at this rate the 

construction is proceeded, how can they reach the target of providing houses to all 

by 2022 by providing at least a minimum of 3,41,00,000 houses to the people who 

are  residing  in  the  urban  areas?    Housing  is  very  important  for  States  which  are 

given special status under article 371.  Assam has no housing under PMAY.  There 

is no housing under PMAY in Karnataka.  Fortunately, the hon. Minister was kind 

enough  to  sanction  16,000  houses  to  Karnataka  whereas  the  requirement  in 

Karnataka is 10,02,000 houses.  This is really injustice.   

 

Another aspect is, poverty alleviation is also very important.  Funds allocated 

for the National Urban Renewal Mission is very, very meagre. Unless the poverty is 

alleviated,  unless  the  people  who  are  residing  in  the  slums  are  economically 

empowered, how can the Government improve the conditions of these people?  For 

2016-17,  only  Rs.  325  crore  is  earmarked  for  this  purpose.    So,  the  Government 

should raise more funds.   

 

