 There is clearly over-optimism as too 

much is expected from voluntary disclosure and penalties while incentives are not 

in place.  Let us not forget that the Union Budget of 2017-18 was presented under 

the  shadow  of  the  impact  of  demonetization.    The  consensus  among  most 

economists  is  that  demonetization  will  impose  a  significant  cost  on  the  economy 

and  the  Economic  Survey  itself  recognizes  this.    The  survey  recognizes  that  the 

informal sector has suffered substantially  more than the formal sector.  Moreover, 

the  government  hoped  to  raise  Rs.  30,000  crore  as  taxes  from  Rs.  65,000  crore 

declared under the Income Disclosure Scheme but it is likely that Rs. 30,000 crore 

may not be realized as taxes if the black income declarant is able to explain in the 

source  of  his  income.    In  respect  of  demonetization  no  numbers  have  been 

disclosed on how much of the demonetized currency notes have come back to the 

Reserve  Bank  of  India.    I  would  also  demand  that  Government  should  present  a 

white  paper  to  Parliament  indicating  all  the  details  on  unaccounted  money  and 

wealth stashed abroad and also the generated income concealed within the country 

and  the  extent  to  which  Justice  M.  B.  Shah  Task  Force  recommendations  have 

been  implemented.    As  far  as  transparency  in  political  funding  is  concerned,  our 

party, Biju Janta Dal, believes that transparency in funding of political parties must 

be promoted in public interest.  Therefore, I would insist that, it is better, every pie 

or every rupee that is being donated to a political party should be in public domain.  

The  prevailing  situation  regarding  tax  treatment  of  'agricultural  income'  is 

ambiguous.    If  I  have  an  income  of  around  Rs.  50,000  or  Rs.  1,00,000  which  is 

'agricultural income' only, I will not be taxed.  However, if I have other sources of 

income, and these specific words are added to it 'for rate purpose', it will be added 

and  the  income-tax  will  be  imposed.    So,  I  want  to  know  whether  the 

recommendation of some committee or the Government did it on its our wisdom.  

Moreover, I fail to understand as to why Aadhar card is being linked to PAN card.  

This has not been discussed in the House till now.  

 

