    The  Child  Labour  (Prohibition  and 

Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2016 bans all child labour up to the age of 14 years 

in  any  sector. The proposed  amendment  prohibits the  employment of  adolescents 

between the age group of 14 and 18 years in hazardous occupations. The jail term 

for  breaking  the  law  has  been  proposed  to  be  increased  from  six  months  to  two 

years. The fine is also increased from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 50,000. According to the 

amendment, children below the age of 14 cannot be employed anywhere except in 

non-hazardous  family  enterprises  or  in  the  entertainment  industry.  The  latter 

includes  working  as  an  artist  in  an  audio-visual  entertainment  industry, 

advertisements,  films,  television  serials  or  any  such  entertainment  or  sports 

activities  except  the  circus.  The  proposed  amendments  allow  children  to  work  in 

family enterprises after school hours or during school holidays which, according to 

the  Government, is  important  given  India's  socio-economic  realities. Also  the  list 

of  hazardous  activities  has  been  slashed  from  83  to  3  -  mining,  inflammable 

substances,  and  hazardous  processes  under  the  Factories  Act,  1948.  By  allowing 

this in the name of family enterprises, in a way, we are accepting the child labour. 

It is not beneficial to eradicate child labour from India. This Bill proposes to allow 

children  to  work  in  family  enterprises.  Also,  in  the  list  of  prohibited  occupations 

set  forth  in  the  Schedule,  the  occupations  have  been  reduced  to  just  three.  These 

amendments  would  mean  that  children  will  be  allowed  to  work  in  family-run 

industries like carpets, embroidery, agriculture and other forms of domestic labour. 

About  80  per  cent  of  the  cases  rehabilitated  so  far  has  been  reported  from  these 

categories  only.  While  I  support  the  very  purpose  and  the  spirit  of  the  Bill,  I 

strongly believe that certain amendments are required in the Bill to make it  more 

effective  and  child  friendly.  In  Clause  18,  the  punishment  proposed  for  forcing 

child to work needs to be enhanced from less than twenty thousand rupees to fifty 

thousand rupees and fifty thousand rupees to one lakh rupees. So many NGOs are 

working  for  eradication  of  child  labour. They  need  more  funds. The  Government 

of India should provide more funds to the NGOs who are engaged in eradication of 

child labour.  

 

