  The  pre-berthing  detention 

time in India used to be weeks and months a few decades ago.  This Government 

has brought it down from about two days to less than a day but there are still cases 

where ships are lying  outside  for one, two  and  three  weeks.  So, this law is even 

more  important.    It  is  one  more  step  in  increasing  our  maritime  trade.    The  Bill 

repeals  the  old,  obsolete  British  statutes.    It  also  consolidates  the  existing  laws 

relating to admiralty  jurisdiction of the Court, admiralty proceedings on maritime 

claim, arrest of vessels and related issues.  As of today, the admiralty jurisdiction is 

with  three  High  Courts  of  Bombay,  Calcutta  and  Madras.    The  Bill  rightfully 

increases the number of courts which can examine this.  By increasing the number 

of  High  Courts,  does  it  reduce  the  time?    That  is  a  question  that  we  need  to 

examine  because  the  Courts  are  already  over-loaded.    Everything  is  fine.    But, 

there is one anomaly.  In the case of Hyderabad and Telangana, we do not have a 

port.  It is land-locked.  In the interest of boosting the maritime trade of India, we 

require a separate High Court.  It is very easy to draw a line on the land.  But how 

do you draw a line in the sea?  We need to have GPS coordinates because ships are 

almost  500  metres  wide.    There  is  one  more  issue.    The  Central  and  State 

Governments  do  not  have  non-commercial  vessels;  there  are  very  few.    So,  they 

generally depend on lease for the purposes of survey, exploration etc.  these can be 

construed as non-commercial activities but the very act of the Government leasing 

a ship is a commercial operation.  Therefore, the Bill is a little ambiguous in that 

area.    The  Bill  provides  clarity  with  respect  to  the  jurisdiction  and  settlement  of 

claim.  It is only the boundary that has to be more precisely defined; otherwise, it 

will  be  another  cause  for  delay.  Lastly,  I  would  really  appreciate  if  the  Ministry 

tells us how much benefit this Bill gives.  So, I want a matrix.  How many of those 

ships  are  lying  in  the  outer  harbour  and  how  much  of  the  pre-berthing  detention 

time  does  it  reduce?    How  many  legal  cases  does  it  reduce?    These  are  the  main 

points.  

 

