  The  Bill,  inter  alia,  empowers  the  Central 

Government to increase the authorized capital of the National Bank from Rs.5000 

crore to Rs.30,000 crore.  This is timely and needed and hence I welcome this Bill.  

This is a good Bill which will help the farmers of the entire country who are very 

much in need of financial support from the Government.  The first and foremost of 

my suggestions to the Government is that the word, 'farmer' may be incorporated in 

the name of NABARD, making the name and style of NABARD as 'National Bank 

for Farmers, Agriculture, and Rural Development'.  I also suggest that the Farmers' 

Welfare  Board  of  India  be  constituted  immediately  to  look  into  the  issues  of 

farmers.    Further,  I  would  like  to  suggest  that  financial  support  shall  also  be 

extended  to  other  major  irrigation  projects  taken  up  by  the  State  Government.  I, 

therefore,  urge  upon  the  Government  to  release  adequate  funds  to  the  tune  of 

RS.2,000  crore  to  the  State  of  Andhra  Pradesh  under  NABARD's  Green  Climate 

Fund  and  also  request  the  Government  to  allocate  more  funds  under  NABARD's 

CSR funds so as to utilize these funds for development works.  The other important 

issue to which I would like to draw the attention of the Government is that some of 

the  Primary  Agriculture  Cooperative  Societies  (PACS)  are  reeling  through 

financial constraints.  I would request the Government that funds for the same may 

be  sanctioned.    NABARD  should  encourage  formation  of  more  Farm  Producer 

Organization  (FPO).    Similarly,  refinance  limit  for  cooperative  banks  by 

NABARD be increased from existing 40 per cent to 60 per cent.  I, therefore, urge 

upon  the  Government  to  implement  the  recommendations  made  by  the  Standing 

Committee  on  Finance.    Further,  the  participation  of  at  least  three  MPs  from  the 

Lok  Sabha  and  two  MPs  from  the  Rajya  Sabha  be  included  as  Members  of  the 

Board  for  a  term  of  two  years.    Another  submission  to  the  Government  is  that  a 

regional office of NABARD be established at Amravati.   

 

