 This tax reform is the need of the hour due 

to  existing  complex  web  of  taxes,  complicated  tax  structure  and  cumbersome 

compliances  before  multiple  authorities.    I  am  happy  to  become  a  part  of  this 

historic  move  which  is  for  the  betterment  of  the  people  of  this  country.    I,  on 

behalf of my Telugu Desam Party, wholeheartedly support these Bills.  In PPP 

terms, India becomes the largest single market that has such a tax regime.  We 

are  moving  ahead  of  both  China  and  the  USA  in  terms  of  implementing  this 

historic change.  GST will become a reality from 16th September, 2017.  Due to 

implementation  of  GST  Andhra  Pradesh  is  going  to  lose  Rs.  2,000  crore 

annually  even  though,  after  bifurcation,  we  are  reduced  to  a  consuming  State.  

The  first  point  I  wish  to  make  is  relating  to  Section  19  of  the  Constitution 

Amendment  Act  which  says  that  "Union  'may'  compensate  States  for  loss  of 

revenue  arising  out  on  account  of  implementation  of  GST  for  five  years."    I 

want that the word 'may' be substituted with the word 'shall' and only then it is 

binding  on  the  Government  of  India  to  compensate  States.    As  per  my 

calculation, Rs. 6000 crore is yet to be paid to Andhra Pradesh but I request the 

Finance Minister to inform us as to how much the Centre has so far paid to AP, 

how is the balance going to be paid and by when the CST dues are going to be 

cleared.  We all know that we are graduating from the existing complex tax web 

to  a  more  rationale  tax  regime.    I  only  suggest  that  every  State  has  to  be 

equipped  to  be  ready  for  graduating  from  the  existing  tax  structure  to  GST.    I 

would also like the Finance Minister to explain as to why the Government did 

not  provide  any  shareholding  to  the  nationalized  bank  in  the  SPV  meant  for 

providing  IT  infrastructure  for  GST  even  though  private  banks  have  been 

holding stakes in it.  There is a need to provide a level playing field to NBFCs 

and  chit  fund  companies  in  matter  of  taxation.    GST  will  increase  the  cost  of 

renewable  energy.    For  solar  energy,  it  is  likely  to  raise  costs  by  12  to  14  per 

cent.  I request the hon. Minister to consider policy implications of GST in areas 

of strategic interest, such as Make in India and the National Solar Mission and 

find  a  way  out  for  this  and  protect  domestic  solar  industry  by  prescribing 

discounted  tax  rates  uniformly  for  domestic  and  imported  modules  or  exempt 

this  from  the  purview  of  the  GST  as  is  being  done  in  the  case  of  alcohol  and 

petroleum products.  I am sure the GST will usher in a new horizon and play a 

crucial role in the growth trajectory of the country.  But I only caution the hon. 

Finance  Minister  that  implementation  mechanism  must  match  up  with  ever 

evolving business dynamics.   

 

