  Out  of  Rs.21  lakh  crores  of 

Union  Budget,  only  Rs.60,000  crore  has  been  allocated  for  the  Ministry  of 

Agriculture  which  seems  to  be  on  lower  side.    This  amounts  to  3  per  cent  only 

though 70 per cent of our population depends on agriculture.  I would like to say 

that the Government should conceive a new programme called Grow India on the 

lines with programmes such as Make-In-India, Digital India, Skill India etc. and a 

target  should  be  fixed  for  this  new  programme  also.    The  Government  has  set  a 

target to double the income of farmers but I would seek some clarifications about 

it.    I  understand  that  their  profitability  should  be  doubled.    The  report  of  Dr. 

Swaminathan  should  be  implemented.    I  strongly  believe  that  till  the  MSP  is  not 

fixed  50  per  cent  more  than  the  input  cost,  the  farmers  cannot  survive.    The 

Government  should  clarify  in  this  regard.    I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  Modi 

Government  for  introduction  of  neem  coated  urea  which  has  saved  the  farmers.  

The subsidy  for drip irrigation should be  increased.   The Crop Insurance  Scheme 

introduced by  the  Government  has  benefited  the  farmers.   Its  coverage  target  has 

been  fixed  at  50  per  cent  but  I  would  like  that  it  should  be  100  per  cent.    Soil 

Health  Cards  is  a  good  scheme.      There  are  about  650  vigyan  kendras  or 

laboratories but I would say that this number is inadequate.  This Government has 

given  due  emphasis  on  irrigation  and  has  increased  the  budget  from  Rs.20,000 

crore to Rs.40,000  crore.  There are about 20 check dams in Punjab but all of them 

are  not  functional  as  the  silt  has  accumulated  there.    When  the  state  government 

intend  to  desilt  them,  the  department  of  mining  stopped  them.    Therefore, 

something  should  be  done  in  this  regard.   A  basmati  trade  corporation  should  be 

set  up.    Agro  based  industry  should  be  reserved  for  farmers.    There  is  no  proper 

arrangement for checking the wastage of foodgrains.  Therefore, storages should be 

set  up.    Today,  the  loans  of  farmers  need  to  be  waived  off.    The  ministries  of 

Consumer Affairs, Food and Irrigation should be merged with the Union Ministry 

of Agriculture.  A separate budget should be presented for agriculture.  

 

