  It is an excellent piece of 

legislation.    Most  important  is  that  there  is  a  heavy  pressure  on  the  National 

Highways,  particularly  the  National  Highway  connecting  Chennai  and  Howrah.  

This route is extremely congested.  Perhaps, the Buckingham canal which has been 

sanctioned to us, from Kakinada to Puducherry, would help in decongestion of this 

route  and  reduce  the  risk  of  accidents  on  this  National  Highway.    But  so  far 

whatever investments have been made in inland waterways is very negligible and 

the investment that has been made for the National Highways could be considered 

for  an  investment  in  the  Inland  Waterways.    Tourism,  particularly  pilgrimage 

tourism  has  become  extremely  popular.    This  aspect  should  be  taken  into 

consideration.    Already  we  have  inland  waterways,  of  which  one  is  with  us  and 

techno-feasibility has been completed for 50 projects.  The Government may take 

the  rest  of  the  projects  on  top  priority  to  reduce  the  pressure  on  the  rail  and  the 

roads.  We do not have perennial rivers there.  Therefore, to ensure regular water 

supply  and  to  make  it  successful,  the  Government  should  think  of  regular  water 

supply either to take it from the sea or to connect it with other rivers.  That is most 

important to make it most successful.  In some places it has been mentioned that as 

much  as  Rs.5  lakh  crores  would  be  spent  in  ten  years.    I  am  sure  that  instead  of 

spending  the  amount  from  the  Government  exchequer,  it  may  be  considered  by 

way  of  public-private  partnership  rather  than  spending  it  from  the  public 

exchequer.  The Government has appointed Mohandas Pai Committee to look into 

inland  waters.    That  Committee  Report  may  kindly  be  implemented  early.    The 

most important point which I want to mention here is that, where irrigation projects 

are feasible, they should be considered to make a comprehensive waterway system.  

The natural flow of water into the waterways has been blocked at various places.  

So, while implementing the projects, the hon. Minister may look ingo the inflow of 

water  from  various  places.    If  it  is  not  done,  I  am  sure  that  it  may  not  be  very 

successful.    Similarly,  when  it  is  taken  up,  silting  also  should  be  done 

simultaneously.  At regular intervals, if silting is not done, I am sure, it will not be 

very successful. 

 

