  I  stand  here  to  oppose  this  Bill,  not 

because this Bill goes against the Reservation Policy but because, as I had said the 

other  day,  this  goes  against  the  federal  character  of  our  Constitution.    Certain 

powers  have  been  given  to  respective  states  to  formulate  a  law  and  Indira 

Sawhney's case is one of the glaring example as to how states have to formulate a 

law.  The Governments says that it is not taking away any powers of the State.  But 

still I think that the Government should reconsider.  This Bill looks very innocuous 

and  I  felt  very  much  delighted  because  for  the  last  20-25  years  there  is  no 

Constitutional validity relating to this provision.  The provision can only be tackled 

and  can  only  be  made  of  reconsideration  and  deletion  by  the  Parliament.    In  the 

case of backward classes, the Mandal Commission was created. The Constitutional 

Status  was  given  to  the  Commission  for  Scheduled  Castes  in  1990  and 

Commission  for  Scheduled  Tribes  in  2003.    Since  then  around  24-25  years  have 

passed  but  the  NCBC  has  not  got  Constitutional  status.    In  the  case  of  Indira 

Sawhney verses Union of India, the Supreme Court in 1992 found that it was not 

valid  to  identify  a  group  by  any  criteria  like  occupation,  social,  educational  or 

economic  situation.    However,  it  noted  that  social  and  educationally  backward 

class  under  article  340  had  to  be  construed  in  a  limited  sense.    However,  this 

provision  empowers  the  Government  to  make  reservations  in  appointments  in 

favour  of  any  backward  class  of  citizens.    Therefore,  our  party  is  not  against 

reservation  per  se.    It  is  necessary  that  the  Constitution  should  empower  the 

Parliament that any deletion or addition should be done here in Parliament.  But I 

have a difference because clause 4 of the Bill is really  misleading and is creating 

confusion.  It would further create confusion in future once it becomes an act.  We 

may have difference on this count.  Consultation means 'due consideration'.  Please 

put the word recommendation in lieu of the word consultation.  Recommendation 

of the State Government will be duly considered.  But is there any role of the State 

Government in identifying this and recommending it?  It has no role.  The Moment 

this Bill is passed in Parliament, what will happen to those castes which are not in 

the  Union  List?    This  is  the  point  of  concern.    Once  this  Bill  becomes  an  Act,  it 

will  be  very  difficult  to  include  other  castes  agitating  in  different  states  in  the 

country.  But these agitations will get more aggravated.   Therefore, my plea to you 

is not to play with fire.  Allow the State Governments to decide.  The Government 

should keep itself  confined to the reservation of the Union.   

 

