   Housing is one of the most important sectors 

after  agriculture  and  textile,  which  can  provide  employment  to  the  youths  and  the 

people  of  the  country.    Since  Independence,  we  all  have  given  assurances  to  the 

people for roti, kapda aur makan.  But till date we could not achieve this target.  But 

our hon. Prime Minister has assured that around 6 crore houses will be provided to 

the  people  of  this  country  by  2019.    Any  nation's  development  is  dependent  on 

activities in the housing sector.   Until  and  unless  you  provide  the land,  no  housing 

can  come  up.    The  State  has  to  provide  the  land  and  the  Central  Government  will 

provide money for the poor to have housing so as to elevate their economic status. 

Most  of  the  times,  in  most  of  the  States,  the  schemes  sponsored  by  the  Central 

Government  are  not  reaching  the  village  level.    The  responsibility  lies  on  the 

panchayats.  So, the dream of Mahatma Gandhi should be fulfilled in the 70th year 

of  our  Independence.    For  this,  the  respective  State  should  take  more  interest  and 

work hard.  Honestly, the Gram Panchayats, the purasabhas, the corporations and the 

corporators  should  sincerely  work  for  the  upliftment  of  the  poorest  of  the  poor  of 

this  country.    Housing  problem  can  be  divided  into  rural  housing,  urban  housing, 

affordable  housing  and  slums.    About  80  per  cent  houses  in  the  rural  areas  do  not 

have  safe  drinking  water,  bath-rooms,  toilets  etc.    Added  to  that,  our  population 

growth is very high and available land space is inadequate to solve the problem.  At 

present, there is  a  shortage of  around  46  million  houses  in  the  country  as  a  whole.  

Only 22 per cent urban houses and 30 per cent rural houses are having toilets in the 

house  itself  and  rest  are  depending  on  common  toilets  or  defecating  in  the  open.  

Within an year of assuming power our, hon. Prime Minister not only understood it,  

but is also striving for achieving "toilets for all" as soon as possible.  The policy of 

the  present  NDA  Government  is  to  provide  housing  for  all  by  2022.    I  must 

congratulate the Minister of urban Development for whatever the State Government 

has requested from Karnataka, he has 100 per cent fulfilled.  I must thank them that 

they have given two Smart Cities for Belgaum and Downgiri for Karnataka.  I would 

request the Government of India and the State Governments that they must provide 

all the facilities like road, water, sanitation, garbage cleaning and electricity, before 

construction of any housing colony.  I would request the State Government to reduce 

the  stamp  duty.    Recently,  in  Karnataka,  the  stamp  duty  has  been  increased  very 

heavily.  My friend was saying yesterday that Tumkur should be given an industrial 

corridor.  Hon. Minister of Finance has promised him.  But without giving the land, 

how can the industry come up there?  It is the responsibility of the State Government 

to provide land. 

 

