  Let  the  Admiralty  (Jurisdiction  and  Settlement  of 

Maritime  Claims)  Bill, 2016 of  course be  renamed  as  the  Admiralty  (Jurisdiction 

and Settlement of Maritime Claims )Bill, 2017.  This concerns certain questions  of 

the federal character of this nation.  There are still quite a lot of disputes between 

the States regarding the territorial waters.  At least the Standing Committee on Law 

and  Justice  should  have  gone  through  the  Bill  and  take  evidence  and  submit  a 

Report.  On the basis of the Report of the concerned Standing Committee a fruitful 

discussion should take place.  I agree that more than 95 per cent of the trade takes 

place  through  sea.  What  percentage  of  the  trade  India  has  in  the  global  trade 

scenario?  Nowadays, the merchant ships engage armed guards.  Armed guards for 

the security of seafarers are boarded from various convenient ports well before the 

high risk areas are reached but they are not allowed to leave the ship from Indian 

ports.  These guards are from different nations. So, the ships have to keep them till 

the  next  port  outside  India.    It  costs  quite  a  lot  of  financial  burden  upon  the 

merchant  ships.    This  actually  creates  inconvenience  for  the  merchant  ships.    I 

hope the Government will look into this matter.  In this Bill there is a provision for 

the  fine.    The  fine  for  pollution  should  match  the  international  standards.    There 

have  been  complaints  against  our  customs  officials  from  our  own  shipping 

companies  as  well  as  foreign  shipping  companies.    This  should  be  avoided.  

Corruption at the customs point and immigration point should be checked severely.  

The Anchuthengu fortress is protected by the Archaeological Department but so far 

our  Government  has  not  taken  any  initiative  to  put  it  under  Sagar  Mala  project.  

My  humble  request  to  the  Minister  is  to  put  Anchuthengu  under  Sagar  Mala 

project.  It is a historical place situated in my Constituency.   

 

