 This Finance Bill, when it was presented on 1st 

February, 2017, had 150 Clauses and seven Schedules.  But strangely enough, the 

Finance  Minister,  in  his  series  of  amendments  added  33  new  Clauses  and  two 

Schedules.  I do not understand why in a Finance Bill, which is supposed to detail 

the  taxation  proposals  of  the  Government,  they  have  brought  in  the  abolition  or 

uniformisation  of  the  tribunals,  which  have  no  relation  to  taxation  proposals 

directly.    There  has  been  no  significant  effort  to  lower  the  taxation  rates  so  that 

collections could be improved.  In case of Income Tax, the Government is giving 

up  Rs.15,000  crore  with  small  income  tax  payers  getting  Rs.12,500  and  it  is 

gaining  Rs.2,700  crore  by  taxing  the  bracket  between  Rs.50  lakh  and  Rs.1  crore.  

With  regard  to  the  Corporate  Tax,  for  companies  having  turnover  up  to  Rs.50 

crore, the tax has been reduced to 25 per cent.  Due to this, the total tax given up is 

Rs.7,200  crore.    The  total  reduction  in  taxes    to  the  Government  comes  to 

Rs.20,000  crore.    There  are,  otherwise,  no  major  changes  in  the  tax  rates  in  the 

Budget.    Government has  given  tax  concession  with  regard  to affordable housing 

having  carpet  area of  30  to  60  square  meters.   Completion  period of  housing  has 

also  been  extended  from  three  to  five  years.    The  other  thing  is  that  there  is  tax 

relief in partial withdrawal from the National Pension System.  This is a welcome 

step in the sense that those who are saving through National Pension Scheme will 

get this benefit.  Another good step is that the Chief Minister's relief fund has been 

exempted  from  taxes.      The  Government  has  given  a  long  list  of  concessions  on 

customs duty.  Some concessions relate to proposals involving change in customs 

duty for incentivizing value addition 'Make in India'.  The Government has formed 

this Budget with the expectation that the GST would give rise to better collection.  

The Government has increased the money for infrastructure, etc.  Now, where will 

the  money  come  from?    The  funding  of  such  expenditure  seems  to  be  left  to  the 

mercy of implementation of the GST which is likely to bring in more taxes to the 

Centre  and  States  as  also  transfer  of  resources  from  the  tax  evaders  to  the 

Government 

through  demonetization. 

  However,  GST 

is 

likely 

to  have 

contractionary  effects  in  the  short-term,  particularly  in  the  year  of  imposition.  

Thus, the tax revenue is likely to fall this year.  The people's expectation was that 

the  income  tax  exemption  limit  would  be  raised  to  Rs.5  lakh,  but  only  a  small 

concession  has  been  given  on  income  tax.  The  Government  has  not  given  farm 

loan  waiver.    Demonetization  did  not  turn  out  to  be  a  bonanza  as  roughly  Rs.15 

lakh crore was demonetized and almost Rs.15 lakh crore has been deposited.  For 

re-monetization  the  cost  is  as  per  my  estimate  Rs.20,000  crore.    Rs.6,500  crore 

extra  tax  was  generated  through  demonetization.    So,  demonetization  has  been  a 

total loss.  Demonetization crushed the small farmer, the artisan, the daily labourer 

and  one  day  the  Government  will  have  to  pay  the  price.    The  GST  is  to  be 

implemented  from  1st  July,  2017.  If  the  initial  year  of  GST  is  poor  in  revenue 

accruals, then where will the Government get the money from?  The Budget has a 

long  list  of  give-aways  and  Government  programmes  in  the  context  of 

demonetization  hurting  the  economy,  but  little  in  the  way  of  job-creating  reform.  

India needs reforms to create jobs by opening itself up to global supply chains, to 

incentivize  firms  to  grow  so  that  they  can  compete  globally  and  work  harder  to 

teach  skills  to  young  people.    One  million  people  are  joining  the  job  market  in 

India  every  year.    In  2015,  only  1,35,000  new  jobs  were  created  in  this  country.  

Every year we are creating an army of the unemployed.   The Budget encourages 

companies  to  remain  small  because  they  are  giving  concessions  to  smaller 

companies but not to bigger companies.  The Budget India needed to do something 

to  revise  investment  since  private  investment  showed  no  signs  of  recovery.    The 

Government  is  going  for  privatization.    Today,  the  Finance  Minister  announced 

that  he  is  going  to  disinvest  Bridge  and  Roof,  Kolkata,  Bharat  Pumps,  Scooters 

India, Hindustan Newsprints and eight more companies.  They are destroying the 

basis  of  the  public  sector.    I  totally  oppose  these  disinvestment  proposals  of  the 

Government.    This  Budget  does  not  tell  us  how  much  black  money  Government 

has  recovered  so  far.    This  Finance  Bill  does  not  show  a  way.    The  Finance 

Minister  has  not  laid  down  a  roadmap  by  which  he  will  be  able  to  mop  up  more 

resources  from  the  rich  and  give  more  relief  to  the  poor  so  that  the  economy 

improves.  

 

