    Every  child  is  a  blessing  of  God 

representing  the  greatest  asset  of  a  nation  and  its  future.    It  is  unfortunate, 

therefore, when a child has become a labourer I our prevailing social system.  For 

poor countries, children are economic assets.  I say that by introducing clause 5 of 

this Bill, the Central Government is opening a back door to bring child labour.  Is it 

that  the  child  will  be  permitted  to  work  after  school  hours?    This  really  hits  the 

basic concept of the Act itself.  I would request the hon. Minister not to press upon 

clause  5  itself.    In  India,  millions  of  children  under  the  age  of  14  years  work  as 

labourers.  In India, the percentage of child labour is 23.  We are the highest in that 

figure.  While child labourers can be found in urban dwellings, around 80 per cent 

are  reside  in  rural  areas  where  they  are  forced  to  work  in  agricultural  activities 

such as tanning, livestock, rearing, forestry and fisheries.  The founding fathers of 

the Constitution emphasize the importance of the role of children and the need of 

their  development.    Dr.  Ambedkar  projected  the  children's  rights  in  the  Directive 

Principles  of  State  Policy  as  their  deprivation  had  a  dangerous  effect  on  the 

efficiency of the democracy and the rule of law.  There is no dearth of Acts in our 

country.  But the problem is the implementation of the Acts and execution of the 

Acts.  The National Child Labour Project which started its operation in 1988 was 

an integral part of the national policy on child labour.  The Special Schools under 

the NCLP are run by the NGOs, local self-Government bodies, or directly by the 

Project  Society.    The  child  labour  is  getting  decreased  there.    The  Central 

Government is responsible for not eliminating child labour from the soil of India.  

Education eradicates illiteracy and provides means to economic empowerment and 

opportunity 

to 

live  a  better 

life.  Everyone  has 

the  right 

to  education.  

Unfortunately,  it  has  not  been  implemented  in  the  entire  country.    Therefore,  I 

would  like  to  end  that  there  are  laws,  but  we  have  to  implement  then  fully.    The 

Labour Minister of the  Government of  India  must take  care  and  see  that they  are 

being implemented.  Child labour must be eradicated through promoting education 

and  well  planned,  poverty  alleviation  and  developmental  schemes,  as  well  as 

through the imposition of trade actions on employment of children.  

 

