  Hon. Member's objection is predominantly borne 

out  of  the  language  of  Article  110(1).    The  critical  word,  according  to  an  hon. 

Member is the word 'only'; and that is how, another hon. Member supports him that 

it  is  only  the  taxation  proposals  and  nothing  else,  which  is  incidental,  really  can 

find a place as far as the Money Bill is concerned.  With regard to this word 'only', 

right from the inception of this House, as to what is the width that this word 'only' 

permits has been a subject matter of debate.  Mr. Mavalankar, in his first Ruling on 

this subject gave the thrust on the point that you cannot have a Bill which says that 

the  Government  shall  spend  Rs.100  thousand.    How  that  is  to  be  spent,  the 

incidental  provisions  will  have  to  be  contained.    The  fact  is  that  these  incidental 

provisions to the Principal provision exist do not render a Bill to be a Non-Money 

Bill.  That is what Mr. Mavalankar said.  Therefore, the word 'only' has to be read 

in the  context of the spirit of  Article  110.    It is  much  ado  about nothing that  you 

say  40  laws  are  being  amended.    What  is  the  amendment?    The  amendments  are 

incidental  to  the  Acts.  In  fact  these  amendments  relates  to  minor  changes  in  the 

original Acts.  The hon. Members also say how is electoral bonds a money Bill?  In 

the  Budget  announcement,  we  came  out  with  a  proposal  that  there  will  be  an 

income  tax  incentive  involved  in  four  different  ways.    These  are  all  amendments 

under the Income Tax Act and the specific provision of the Income Tax Act which 

deals with this is Section 13A.  In the Finance Bill, this is clause 11.  These are all 

incidental  announcements  to  that  entire  scheme  which  has  been  made  under  the 

Income  Tax  Act  itself.    So,  my  respectful  submission  is  that  it  is  squarely  in  the 

language of Article.   

 

 

Thereafter, the Speaker made the following observation: 

