  The  Juvenile  Justice  Board  despite  a  few 

positive provisions regarding adoption and so on has put forward this House a most 

regressive  proposal. Today  is  a  black  day  for  this  Parliament  in  terms  of  modern 

jurisprudence.    I  must  sadly  accuse  the  Government  of  having  chosen  political 

expediency  over  justice.   The  provision  under  Clause  16  and Clause 19(3)  of  the 

Juvenile  Justice  Bill  is  not  only  in  contravention  of  the  most  important 

fundamental rights guaranteed by our Constitution but it is in conflict with its own 

objectives and principles.  There are 472 million children in our country.  Only 1.2 

per  cent  of  all  of  them  have  committed  crimes.    The  number  of  children  who 

committed  serious  and  heinous  crimes  was  even  miniscule.    How  can  we  pass  a 

law  that  will  jeopardise  the  other  99.98  per  cent  children  in  this  country  because 

we  are  over-reacting  or  this  Government wishes  to  over-react  to  these  handful  of 

cases?    What  this  Government  should  be  doing  is  properly  implementing  the 

existing  provisions  for  rehabilitating  children  in  conflict  with  the  law.    The 

Government should fix the juvenile justice system and not bypass it and victimize 

our  children.    This  law  will  predominantly  affect  the  country's  poor  and 

marginalized section in our society-OBCs, SCs, STs and minorities for a majority 

of children in conflict with the law come from illiterate families, poor homes or are 

even homeless.  The provision  also lacks constitutional validity.  The selective and 

unequal  treatment  of  children  violates  the  Fundamental  Rights  guaranteed  under 

Article 14 and Article 15(3) of the Constitution. Here, the equal protection of law 

guaranteed  under  Article  14  is  gone  and  equality  before  the  law  is  also  gone.  

Article  15(3)  allows  the  States  to  enact  special  provisions  for  protecting  children 

because  they  are  vulnerable.   The one  month  period given to the Juvenile  Justice 

Board  for  their  preliminary  inquiry  is  absurdly  short  and  could  lead  to  a 

presumption  of  guilt  and  not  of  innocence,  which  itself  violates  the  Constitution.  

Clause 22 of the Bill exempts a child from death penalty, but after being detained 

for  20  years, he  will be  a  hardened  criminal  after  20  years.  What provisions has 

the  Government  made  to  jail  convicted  children  in  separate  facilities  from 

hardened  adult  criminals?    I  see  nothing  in  this  Bill.    The  fact  is  that  even  the 

standards available for determining the age of a child in our country are extremely 

abysmal.  Now, the fact is that there are no specific provisions or guidelines for a 

female  juvenile  and  nothing  for  sex offenders. I  just  want  to  stress  that  this  is  an 

extremely  unjust  law.    Our  justice  should  be  about  rehabilitation  and  not  about 

retribution.    What  is  needed  in  our  country  is  child  protection  and  development 

under  juvenile  law  to  be  given  sufficient  attention  and  investment.    This 

Government is starving the juvenile justice system.  There has been a reduction of 

55 per cent in allocations to the States. I want to stress that children below the age 

of 18 must be saved from prison and must be protected from the regular criminal 

framework.    

 

