  The  government  has 

enhanced the import duty to 40 percent to discourage imports.  Then the duty free 

import  authorisation  scheme  for  sugar  has  been  withdrawn.  We  all  know, 

sugarcane  is  an  important  cash  crop  grown  in  India.    Sugarcane  cultivation  and 

development  of  sugar  industry  runs  parallel  to  the  growth  of  human  civilization 

and  is  as  old  as  agriculture.    In  the  current  day  rural  economy  set  up  sugarcane 

cultivation  and  sugar 

industry  has  been  focal  point  for  socio-economic 

development  in  rural  areas.    Apart  from  this,  the  sugar  industry  provides 

employment  to  five  lakh  skilled  and  semi-skilled  workers  in  rural  areas.    Sugar 

production is the second largest agro processing industry in the country after cotton 

and  textiles.    The  sugar  mills  in  Andhra  Pradesh  are  not  doing  well.    I  want  to 

know from the honourable Minister how much fund has been transferred to Andhra 

Pradesh under the Sugar Development Fund in the last two years. During Hudhud 

cyclone  sugarcane  crop  was  destroyed  completely.    During  recent  floods  also 

sugarcane crop has been damaged.  Even crop insurance scheme is not of any help 

to  them  because  of  rigid  rules.    The  four  sugar  mills  in  my  Anakapalli 

Constituency  were  severely  damaged  during  cyclone.    So,  I  would  request  the 

honourable Minister to come to the rescue of these mills.  There is increase in the 

cost of production due to increased input cost, especially the cost of labour.  There 

is  scarcity  of  labour  due  to  implementation  of  Mahatma  Gandhi  National  Rural 

Employment Guarantee Scheme.  This scarcity of labour has increased the wages. 

Lack of adequate power supply is affecting the irrigation which is turn effects the 

output  and  also  the  weight  of  crop.    The  Minimum  Support  Price  fixed  by  the 

Government  is  not  remunerative  to  the  farmers  in  view  of  steep  rise  in  cost  of 

production,  transportation and incidental costs.  The government should look into 

this aspect.   

 

