 In the Financial Memorandum to the 

Bill, it has been clearly stated that every teacher appointed or in position as on 31st 

March,  2015,  who  does  not  possess  minimum  qualifications  as  laid  down  under 

sub-section (1) of the Section 23 shall acquire such minimum qualification within a 

period  of  four  years.    That  is  the  crux  of  this  Amendment  Bill.    That  is  why  I 

welcome  this  legislation.    There  are  certain  issues  which  the  Government  has  to 

seriously consider and implement.  One is the amount that is needed has been put 

in the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan.  There is extreme neglect of the primary education 

in  the  Budget  2017-18.    The  Budget  has  ignored  the  effective  implementation  of 

the Right to Education Act and a meagre increase for Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan has 

been made in the Budget.  We have certain data especially from the Northeast, in 

States like Nagaland where 42 per cent of Government Teachers are untrained.  So 

it  is  a  big  challenge.    There  are  States  like  Kerala  or  Tamil  Nadu  where  there  is 

excess  of  trained  staff  and  many  training  institutions  are  now  closing  down  one 

after another.  So the Government has to find a way out because on the one side, in 

some  States  we  find  that  trained  teachers  and  especially  in  the  North  Eastern 

States, we find that there is a large number of untrained teachers.  The Government 

also  has  to  find  adequate  finance  for  running  the  Sarva  Shiksha  Abhiyan  and  the 

Mid-Day  Meal  Scheme.    By  this  important  legislation,  we  are  bringing  all  the 

children in the country, up to the age of 14 or Eighth Standard under the education 

system.    But  the  sad  fact  is,  there  are  children  who  get  all  the  privileges  in  good 

schools, paying high fees and on the other side, we see there are children who do 

not have any type of education and this is not a small number.  The percentage of 

such children who do not get the facility of better education is going up every year.  

So,  the  Government  has  to  find  a  way  out  if  we  are  going  to  implement  this 

legislation in letter and spirit that every child in the country should have a facility 

for  education.    There  are  vacancies  in  Government  schools.    I  am  very  confident 

that  the  things  would  improve  everywhere.    I  am  proud  that  in  Kerala  the 

Government  teachers  are  well  educated  and  they  have  got  good  standards.    It  is 

because they have been selected in such a manner.  But the real problem is lack of 

infrastructure.    Now,  in  the  private  institutions,  education  itself  has  become  a 

business.  One has to pay a huge amount of money to get admission of his ward in 

these  private  schools,  which  an  ordinary  persons  cannot  afford  it.    So,  in  the 

government schools, both the Central Government and State Governments have to 

think together as to how to provide better infrastructure.  In the case of Mid-Day 

Meal  Scheme,  now  the  Government  is  giving  instruction  that  Aadhaar  is 

compulsory  for  getting  the  benefit  of  this  scheme.    But  how  many  students  have 

got  Aadhaar?    I  am  not  against  Aadhaar  but  it  should  not  be  misused.    We  all 

support this Bill but the Government should take due care of the areas such as mid-

day meal, infrastructure issues, etc.  It is not only the responsibility of the Central 

Government but the State Governments should also come forward and contribute.  

As far as the education is concerned, right from student's admission to the teacher's 

appointment, everything should be taken care of.  What I suggest is that both, the 

Central  Government  as  well  as  the  State  Government,  should  work  hand  in  hand 

and see that our education system improves. 

 

