 As I understand, the matter at the core 

of the issue is bailout of banks. Banks have, up till now, declared some 7.6 per cent 

of total borrowings as NPAs. RBI has predicted that this may go up to 8.5 per cent 

by  March,  2017.  so,  in  this  clever  method  of  sweeping  the  bad  loans  under  the 

carpet, we are also trying not to acknowledge that a similar situation had arisen in 

the  US  when  their  subprime  crisis  had  overtaken  them,  and  25  per  cent  of  that 

nation’s  savings  were  wiped  out  at  one  go.  Year  after  year,  we  spend  taxpayers’ 

money to bail out financial institutions, PSUs and various enterprises due to their 

irresponsible activities. This Government has earmarked Rs. 70,000 crore from the 

tax  payers’  money  to  something  they  are  calling  recapitalized  banks.  This  is  a 

complete  bail  out.  The  banks  have  failed.  Then  the  Government  is  passing  these 

laws  without  giving  the  nation  an  assurance  that  these  laws  will  not  fail  in  the 

future. So, I would suggest that there is a need to revamp the whole system by the 

Government. Coming back to Bill, I have a few questions. This Bill allows the RBI 

to  appoint  or  remove  members  from  the  Board  of  a  company  under  the  guise  of 

public interest. On this, I feel, the Government is thrusting the might of the Central 

Bank on the companies. So, there the question arises, who will guard the guards? 

Land is a State issue. When the ARC is going to take over the land under the guise 

that these are assets of a defaulting company, who will the land go to? So, will that 

go  to  the  ARC,  then  to  the  bank  and  then  to  the  Central  Government?  The  Debt 

Recovery  Tribunals  have  a  terrible  shortage  of  manpower.  What  is  the  long-term 

policy to build a proper cadre to handle DRT operations? Finally, what if the ARCs 

fail  in  their  responsibilities?  Does  the  Government  think  of  this?  Has  it  got  any 

contingent plan suppose the ARC has failed? So, these are serious issues. 

 

