  This Bill discusses the future of 

India's  most  prestigious  science  and  technology  institutions.    I  am  sure  that  after 

the  smooth  passage  of  the  Bill  in  both  Lok  Sabha  and  Rajya  Sabha,  the  families 

and  students  of  Tirupati,  Palakkad,  Goa,  Dharwad,  Bhilai  and  Jammu  will  see  a 

long pending dream of theirs come true.  Actually, when we are talking about IITs, 

it is not simply about having these institutes in different parts of the country.   We 

are, in fact, talking about India.  In today's world, if there is one country and one 

society which puts the ultimate priority and emphasis on education, it is that of our 

country,  India.    Today  when  we  talk  about  the  Parliament  as  a  temple  of 

democracy,  then,  surely  our  IITs  are  the  temples  of  science  and  technology.  

Therefore,  I  am  proud  of  the  service  that  our  IITs  have  rendered  over  the  last 

couple  of  decades.    The  IITs,  in  the  beginning,  were  set  up  through  foreign 

collaboration  and  international  aid.    But  the  first  IIT  which  was  indigenously 

developed  by  Indian  academicians  without  any  foreign  collaboration,  I  am  very 

proud to say, is IIT, Guwahati in the State of Assam.  Similarly, if we really want 

to ensure that India is not behind the world in terms of technology but it is leading 

the world in terms of technology then we must focus on our IITs and try to see how 

we can support them.  In this case, in 2010, the Anil Kakodkar Committee was set 

up.    This  Committee  outlined  a  target,  a  very  ambitious  target  I  must  say,  that 

every IIT institute should have a faculty of 1200 professors and should have close 

to 12,000 students.  Where do we stand now?  Apart from that, we have to focus on 

research infrastructure.  We can imagine that IITs have special  laboratories which 

collaborate with State Governments or District Administrations on projects which 

are  relevant  to  that  State.   Again, the  IIT  was  set  up  under  an Act  of  Parliament.  

Let us give it the respect that it deserves.  We should give autonomy.  We need our 

IITs to be given the maximum support.  But, I feel that our students are not getting 

the support that they need.  Their fees was initially Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 2.5 lakh.  But, 

this Government wants to now increase the fees to Rs. 4 lakh.  We demand that the 

fees  should  not  be  increased.      I  agree  that  this  Bill  is  good.  But  yet  we  need  a 

greater public debate on our temples of science and education. The focus must be 

on creating research projects and research parks. I hope that this debate will lead to 

setting  up  of  another  research  park  in  Guwahati  IIT.  My  request  to  the  Hon. 

Minister is to create a research park with a start-up capital of Rs. 50 crore. let us 

talk about IITs with a perspective of future. I hope that this debate will talk about 

our future roadmap for our temples of science and education.  

 

