 I am glad to speak on 

this  Bill  as  I  started  my  professional  career  as  software  engineer.    I  would  like  to 

know  from  the  hon.  Minister  of  Human  Resource  Development  about  the  two  IIIT 

projects, one of which was already set up in Amethi and the other was to be set up in 

Sonepat.  What are the reasons for closing down IIIT, Amethi and it being shifted to 

Allahabad  alongwith  its  students.    The  proposed  IIIT  Sonepat  lies  in  my 

parliamentary  constituency  whose  foundation  was  laid  by  Pallam  Raju  ji  and 

Choudhary Bhupinder Singh Hooda ji in 2003.  Even the work thereon was started.  

But  the  work  was  stopped  just  after  the  change  in  the  Government.    I  am  talking 

about  the  two  Lok  Sabha  parliamentary  constituency  where  the  Members  of 

Parliament  are  from  the opposition.   I  would  like  to  request the  Minister  of  Human 

Resource  Development  to  tell  about  the  reasons  for  the  works  not  being  started  for 

these  two  IIITs  and  their  campuses  were  not  set  up  whereas  the  work  on  the 

remaining IIITs is going on.  IT sector is a very crucial sector.  But over a period of 

time  the  capacity  of  this  sector  to  provide  employment  has  waned.    The  economic 

slowdown as well as the increasing protectionist policy of the countries like USA are 

responsible for this situation.  The restrictions imposed by the USA on its H-1B visa 

policy are specially responsible for this.  The Prime Minister, himself, should come 

forward to clarify if he has taken up the matter with the USA during his recent visit to 

relax  the  restrictions  placed  on  H-1B  visa  policy.    If  this  is  not  done,  the  IT 

professionals  of  India  will  have  to  face  many  difficulties  to  work  in  the  USA.    I 

would also like to suggest that this Bill does not provide for the establishment of the 

extension centres of IIITs.  Hence such provisions should be incorporated in this Bill 

enabling  the  establishment  of  extension  centres  of  the  flagship  IIITs,  like  IIIT, 

Bengaluru  and  IIIT,  Hyderabad  so  that  the  students  of  this  area  may  also  get 

admission  therein.    The  most  significant  feature  of  the  IT  sector  is  that  it  does  not 

require  big  infrastructure  for  its  establishment.    India  dominates  56  per  cent  of  IT 

trade  in  the  world  due  to  our  silicon  valley  as  compared  to  the  USA.    The  Prime 

Minister should say that if the silicon valley of California is showing the path to the 

world, then the Bengaluru has gone a little ahead of it.  At this point in time things 

appear  to  have  been  left  on  their  own  in  the  IT  sector  due  to  which  the  situation  is 

going from bad to worse.  So, this needs to be changed.   

 

