  The  real  estate  sector  is  the  second 

largest employer in the country.  It contributes to about nine per cent of the GDP.  

There  was  an  absolute  screaming  need  for  regulation  to  be  brought  in.    The 

excesses  caused  by  the  imbalance  of  power  during  negotiations  between 

consumers and sellers were indeed extreme.  Therefore, there was a need to set up 

an  individual  authority  with  an  appellate  tribunal  to  address  the  concerns  of  the 

buyers  and  the  promoters.    The  minimum  size  of  plot  required  for  registration  is 

500 square metres.  This ceiling should be done away with.  My second point on 

this  issue  is  that  the  projects  under  development  would  be  included.    I  think,  to 

include them would create a lot of confusion.  My suggestion to the hon. Minister 

would  be  to  fix  a  date  from  whereon  projects  seeking  application  or  projects 

seeking approval would be brought under the ambit of the authority.  I will come to 

my third and slightly technical aspect.  I think that the intent of the hon. Minister 

and the Government is correct when they said that 70 per cent of the money given 

should be kept under an escrow account.  But there are two issues in it.  You allow 

the  promoter  to  put  a  certain  percentage  for  construction  separately  and  a  certain 

percentage  for  land  separately, so  that  the  buyer  and  the  Authority  is  aware as to 

how much money is going to go for what.  You have left out covered parking and 

basement  parking  from  the  definition  of  common  area.    The  builders  can  take 

advantage  of  this  and  charge  huge  amount  from  the  consumer.    So,  some 

regulatory input should be thee on that.  The final point, which I have, is this.  In 

section 2 (n) (i) common areas means: "the entire land for the real estate project or 

where the project is developed in phases and registration under this Act is sought 

for a phase the entire land for that phase,".  When the projects are done in phases 

what  is  going  to  happen  is  that  people  are  going  to  take  the  common  areas  away 

from  the  genuine  apartment  owners  and  they  are  going  to  try  and  profit  from  it.  

There is a need to plug this loophole.   

 

