  The  Indian  farmer  has 

always  stood  by  India's  food  security.    It  is  they  who  increased  food  grains 

production  from  50  million  tonnes  in  1951  to  about  270  million  tonnes  in  2017.  

While the per acre production and productivity have been increasing, the per acre 

income  of the  farmer  has not  been  increasing at  the same  level.   The  intermittent 

droughts,  floods,  cyclones  and  unseasonal  rains  have  all  been  taking  their  toll  on 

the farmers.  Even during the current year, the entire Rayalaseema region, Nellore 

and  Prakasam  districts  of  Southern  Andhra  Pradesh  were  badly  affected  by 

drought.    North-East  monsoon  is  a  total  failure  and  that  is  why,  even  drinking 

water  has  become  a  big  problem  not  only  for  the  human  beings  but  also  for  the 

cattle.  Although, the budget expresses an aspiration to double the farmers' incomes 

in  five  years  period  but  there  is  no  clarity  how  it  can  be  achieved  without 

increasing MSP, which is the only source of income.  For any income to double in 

a period of five years, there should be an annual growth rate of 20 per cent in MSP.  

Agriculture being a highly location specific activity, the costs of production differ 

for different farming situations.  The costs and productivity differ for irrigated and 

unirrigated  areas.    The  Government  has  to  advise  the  CACP  to  recommend 

different  rates  of  MSP  for  different  farming  situations.    Even  when  it  comes  to 

Budget allocation for 2017-18 there is an increase of just 12 per cent.  In the last 

two  years  the  country  has  witnessed  unprecedented  drought  and  with  no  reliable 

insurance  system  in  place  and  very  low  MSP  for  various  crops,  the  farmers  have 

suffered  heavily.    The  Government  should  seriously  consider  bringing  a  loan 

waiver  scheme  at  least  for  affected  farmers.    The  target  of  Rs.  10  lakh  crore  for 

agriculture credit for 2017-18 is not even 10 per cent increase.  There is a need to 

increase the target of bank credit for small and marginal farmers from the present 

7.5 per cent to fifteen per cent of the total bank credit.  In conclusion, I would like 

to  say  that  the  farming  community  in  the  entire  country  is  in  great  distress  and 

agony.  That is why the Governments, both Central and State, should come to their 

rescue  by  giving  reasonable  Minimum  Support  Price  supply  of  quality  seeds, 

fertilizer, water, power and access to easy bank loans. 

 

