  Before  Independence,  the  GDP  share 

from the agriculture sector was more than 50 per cent, it has now declined to less 

than  20  per  cent.    Especially,  the  situation  of  States  like  Tamil  Nadu,  Karnataka, 

Kerala,  Andhra  Pradesh,  Telangana  and  Maharashtra  is  grave.    Huge  deficit  in 

rainfall  and  crop  losses  are  reported.    In  the  last  three  months;  over  200  farmers 

have died either of shock or they have committed suicide in Tamil Nadu alone as 

has been reported.  Unfortunately, the Budget reflects an insensitive and inhuman 

attitude  of  the  Government  towards  the  suffering  of  the  peasants  and  agricultural 

workers.    The  Government  has  gone  back  on  its  promise  of  ensuring  Minimum 

Support  Price  (MSP)  for  crops.    According  to  the  recommendations  of  the 

Swaminathan Commission, the MSP should at least be 50 per cent above the cost 

of  production.    Whereas  MSP  of  most  of  the  crops  are  far  below  their  cost  of 

production.  Similarly, the decision to import wheat at zero import duty is leading 

to dumping of wheat.  This will lead to a further crash in prices as the incompetent 

Government  has  no  effective  procurement  plans.    The  Government  must  make 

preparations on a war footing to procure wheat gown by our farmers facing great 

adversities  at  remunerative  prices  with  incentives  over  and  above  the  Minimum 

Support Price.  On the issue of MGNREGA.  The Government is claiming that it 

has allocated a sum of Rs. 48000 crore for this programme.  The budgeted rise in 

allocation for MGNREGA is just 1.1 per cent.  There are huge arrears of wages for 

work  done  remain  unpaid  and  is,  according  to  reports,  the  amount  stands  at  Rs. 

14000  crore.    While  the  Government  is  claiming  that  they  have  given  a  lot  of 

benefits  to  the  farmers  but  budgetary  provisions  are  meager  as  compared  to  the 

previous  year.    Coming  to  the  increase  of  disasters  in  the  plight  of  the  farming 

community in the country, the farmers suicide has increased by 42 per cent.  About 

68  per  cent  of  farming  households  are  under  debt.    The  price  of  fertilizers, 

pesticides and insecticides are beyond control.  So, once again, I term this Budget 

is a betrayal of the peasantry of our country. 

 

