 Today's moment is a historical 

moment.  Today  commitment  and  determination  of  enforcing  Goods  and  Service 

Tax  (GST)  is  proving  to  be  a  milestone  for  securing  financial  freedom  for  every 

citizen  of  the  country.  Whereas  this  move  reflects  the  original  spirit  of  our 

constitution, on the other hand it will create new history by making the tax regime 

both at Central and State level transparent and effective through collection of high 

revenue.  This  amendment  is  the  most  important,  revolutionary,  reformist  and 

historical step of this decade. I recall Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee who had 

envisaged GST in the year 2003. He, therefore, constituted Kelkar Committee for 

this. Kelkar Ji stated in that committee that Integrated Tax System is of paramount 

importance. As a result thereof, India's tax structure being one of the poorest Tax 

Structures  in  the  world,  was  turned  into  an  excellent  tax  structure  in  the  world.  I 

think that  this bill  has  been  the  most  discussed  Bill  after  independence  history  of 

the nation. There will be good coordination among states due to input tax credit in 

GST  collection.  Obviously,  inflation  increases  when  tax  is  imposed  one  after  the 

other  but  now  it  will  come  down.  I  think  that  whereas  single  market  system  will 

become certainty on the other hand accountability and monitoring will increase and 

black money will be checked. Most important thing is that information technology 

will  be  used  which  will  not  only  stop  theft  but  also  increase  the  Tax  collection.  

Inspector  regime  will  totally  disappear  by  registering  all  products  manufactured 

from  raw  materials  in  computers.  It  will  simplify  the  indirect  taxes.  Excise  and 

Service  Tax  would  be  cheaper.  Implementing  GST  certainly  boosts  the  Samradh 

Bharat and Shreshtha Bharat, Make in India, Skill India, Digital India Missions of 

our  Prime  Minister  Shri  Narendra Modi  Ji. The  GDP is likely  to  increase  by  two 

percent  as  a  result  thereof.  Complication  of  Tax  would  be  diminished  from 

Integrated System. I also like to state that we will go ahead in the world. We can 

trust  that  our  growth  rate  would  cross  two  digit  in  forthcoming  years.  Foreign 

Investment  would  definitely  increase  because  today  around  one  hundred  fifty 

countries have GST. Investors go to other countries like China, Thailand, Vietnam 

due  to  our  complicated  Tax  System.  At  the  end,  I  would  like  to  say  that  for 

clarifying  doubts,  if  any,  council  has  been  constituted  and  states  have  got  66 

percent  representations  therein.    Finance  Minister  has  already  said  about 

compensation  and  provision  of  around  Rs.  34  thousand  crores  has  been  made.  I 

would  like  to  request  only  one  thing  that  there  should  be  proper  monitoring  on 

border areas.  

 

