    The  experts  have  stated  that  the 

budget and economic survey  are excellent.  However, the farmers, women, youth 

and  unemployed  are  suffering  with  a  left  out  feeling.    This  budget  has  given 

nothing but disappointment to the middle, poor and BPL classes.  We are creating 

a lot of rhetoric around the budget but what has it given to the farmers and women.  

I  would  like  to  know  whether  any  emphasis  has  been  given  in  the  budget  on 

increasing  the  provision  for  the  nutritious  food  and  pay  of  Anganwadi  and  Asha 

workers.  The Government is talking about doubling the income of the farmers but 

how they will be able to do so has not been spelt out clearly.  On the one hand the 

Government went to the Supreme Court expressing its inability to effect a hike of 

15 per cent in MSP, on the other hand it is boasting about doubling their income.  

As far as Kisan Fasal Bima Yojana is concerned hon. Prime Minister has  himself 

stated  it  to  be  a  very  good  scheme  and  also  that  a  large  number  of  farmers  are 

benefitting  from  it.    However,  the  number  of  farmers  being  benefitted  from  the 

scheme  is  very  limited.    I  would  like  to  ask  the  Government  whether  it  has 

analyzed the reasons for this scheme not being successful.  There is a need to pay 

the  crop  insurance  claims  to  the  farmers  without  delay.    It  is  absolutely  essential 

that  a  particular  focus  should  be  given  for  giving  a  boost  to  the  Krishi  Vigyan 

Kendras and their infrastructure should also be  upgraded.  The scientists working 

there should also be provided funds.  There is a need to increase the allocation for 

sports also.    The prize money in sports, the budget for rural sports may be raised.  

With  regard  to  our  national  games,  apart  from  cricket,  the  player  should  have 

security that in case he plays only the national game and not the international one, 

even then he could get that much money so that his/her parents may feel that their 

child  is  earning  something.    There  was  much  hope  from  the  budget  that  the 

Government  would  raise  the  MPLAD  fund.    The  Pradhan  Mantri  Gramin  Sadak 

Yojana  is  a  very  good  scheme.    Under  it  Rs.100  crore  may  be  given  for  road 

construction  with the  recommendation  of  the  concerned  MP.   As  such, there  will 

be  no  corruption  and  roads  will  also  be  constructed.    It  will  help  in  road 

construction across villages and in 05 years, construction of about 450 kms. of road 

could be ensured.  This MPLAD fund should either be wound up or be raised upto 

Rs.25  crore.    In  big  hospitals  60-70  per  cent  is  provided  for  treatment  of  serious 

diseases from Prime  Minister's Relief Fund.   That should be increased to 100 per 

cent.  It will ensure transparency and people will not have to dispose of their lands for the 

sake of 30 per cent.  As such, budget should be increased in this regard.  They are 

talking  about  digitization  in  the  field  of  education.    However,  first  of  all, 

recruitment of teachers and providing quality education is required.   

 

