  We had brought this bill in the year 2011. The 

Government had brought this bill, but it was conceptualised by us. We support 

the  idea  of  the  bill,  but  we  have  some  objections  in  this  bill.  While  making 

changes in GST bill, the Parliament will not be taken into confidence, it means 

legislative competence of the Parliament has been ignored somewhere, it is not 

appropriate.  Shri  Arun  Jaitley  had  talked  about  simplification  of  tax  structure. 

But whether concept of one tax is found after looking at the said bill? We will 

find  that  there  is  a  provision  of  CGST,  IGST  and  SGST,  it  means  one  tax  by 

Union  Governance,  one  tax  by  the  State  Government,  One  inter-state  and 

export-import  tax.  Not  only  this,  the  provision  of  seven  slabs  has  also  been 

made  under  it.  Besides  this,  there  is  provision  of  cess  also.  It  is  against  the 

concept of 'One Nation, One Tax ' mentioned by you. During the discussion on 

this bill, the respected Prime Minister, Shir Narendra Modiji has said that GST 

dream could not be realised, till IT infrastructure network with taxpayer is not 

set up in the entire country. Through you, I would like to ask the Government as 

to  whether  work  in  regard  to  GST  software  design  has  been  completed?  It  is 

going  to  be  implemented  from  July  1.  If  preparations  are  not  made,  then  it  is 

going to be second disaster in the four-five months. You have done one disaster 

in the form of demonetisation. The common man will be in problem, he will be 

clueless, where to go, which tax to be deposited, where to be deposited, where 

to be deposited, how much tax to be deposited. The problem will increase in the 

condition of uncertainly, therefore there is need to pay attention in this regard. 

There  is  need  to  work  on  GST  infrastructure.  The  big  traders  have  started 

working on IT infrastructure. But small traders and farmers are not aware of it. 

GST is an indirect tax. Indirect taxes are considered regressive. We have made a 

demand  to  put  cap  of  18  percent  in  GST,  but  the  Government  did  not  agreed. 

The  Indian  economy  runs  on  60  percent  services,  therefore  the  Government 

must pay attention in this regard. Tax should be either 12 percent, or 18 percent 

only. 

 

