  We  had  met  the  Prime  Minister 

and requested him to grant constitutional status to the OBC Commission. Besides, 

we  had  also  requested  for  creation  of  a  separate  Ministry  for  OBCs.  The  hon'ble 

Members of the OBC Committee had also requested the Prime Minister to raise the 

income limit for the Creamy Layer and release the data of caste census. The people 

of the country want to know from the Government as to why did it take three years 

to bring a Bill to grant constitutional status to OBC commission. We are discussing 

one  demand  here  and  the  Government  is  taking  so  much  credit  for  it,  but  the 

hon'ble  Minister  should  also  clarify  about  other  three  demands.  The  OBC 

Committee  has  also  raised  the  issue  of  scholarship  for  OBC  students  before  the 

Government. The Government is not making adequate provision for OBC students. 

The funding for National Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation 

is not adequate. That is why the desired level of development of OBCs is not being 

achieved.  There  is  also  a  need  to  allocate  funds  for  dedicated  hostels  for  OBC 

students.  If  the  Government  is  so  concerned  about  the  interests  of  the  people 

belonging  to  OBCs,  Scheduled  Castes,  it  should  take  steps  to  provide  for 

reservation  of these classes in the  private  sector.  The  government  should  bring  at 

least two amendments, first regarding the provision of at least one woman member 

in  the  proposed  OBC  Commission  and  second,  about  making  it  mandatory  to  fill 

up  the  vacancy  within  90  days.  Caste  census  was  carried  out  during  2011  under 

UPA Government. I would like to request you to release the data of caste census so 

that  representation  on  that  basis  can  be  provided  to  different  sections  of  society.  

We support the Bill, but still the government has not taken adequate steps for the 

welfare of the OBCs and it should pay more attention in this direction.  

 

