  India  is  an  agricultural  country.    About 

seventy  percent  of  our  population  depends  on  agriculture  and  one-third  of  our 

National income comes from agriculture.  Agriculture Ministry has been allocated 

Rs.  51,026  crore  in  2017-18.    The  estimated  expenditure  of  the  Ministry  has 

increased  by  6.1%  over  the  revised  estimate  in  2016-17  (Rs.  48,073  crore).      I 

welcome  the  allocation  of  6800  cr  for  Agricultural  Research  and  Education.    A 

regional  Coffee  Research  station  was  established  near  Pannaikadu,  Thandigudi 

village  in  Tamil  Nadu.    I  request  you  to  upgrade  it  into  a  full  pledged  coffee 

research station and establish a state of Art laboratory.  Dindigul district is covered 

under  Command  Area  Development  and  Water  Management  Programme  of 

Pradhan  Mantri  Krishi  Sichayee  Yojana.    I  request  the  ministry  to  increase  the 

grants  for  construction  of  Field  Channels  and  field  drains  etc.    in  Dindigul 

constituency  50  per  cent  of  farmers  rely  on  horticulture  crops.    I  appeal  to  the 

government  to extend  crop  insurance  cover  to  horticulture, under  Pradhan  Mantri 

Fasal  Bima  Yojana  scheme.    Insurance  cover  should  also  be  extended  to  mango 

crop.  Tamil Nadu is facing the worst ever drought in the last 140 years.  The State 

Government has urged the  Centre  to sanction  Rs. 39,565  crore  from  the  National 

Disaster  Fund  and  to  release  immediately  Rs.  1,000  crore  to  take  up  drought 

mitigation  work  in  the  state.    We  request  the  centre  not  to  take  forward  the 

Hydrocarbon  extraction  project  without  consultation  with  concerned  farmer 

community  and  the  state  government's  permission.    I  request  the  central 

government  to  revive  the  KVKs  established  in 1994  and  1995 by  RVS education 

trust and Bakthavachalam Memorial Trust Dindigul and extend financial assistance 

to them. 

 

