 This is a very important Bill which is really in 

favour  of  labourers.    The  Factories  Act,  1948  was  the  first  Act  enacted  for  the 

welfare of labourers after Independence.  This has undergone several amendments 

from  time  to  time,  but  in  reality,  this  has  not  turned  out  to  be  effective  for  the 

welfare  of  the  labourers.    This  is  because  the  erstwhile  government  has  not  paid 

much attention to this issue.  Under this amendment, the overtime is proposed to be 

increased.    Under  Section  64,  an  employee  is  given  50  hours  overtime  in  three 

months time period and if the employee works for extra hours as overtime then the 

factory  owner  is  not  liable  to  pay  beyond  the  upper  ceiling  of  the  overtime.  

Therefore,  hon.  Minister  has  made  this  provision.    Employees  work  on  overtime 

out  of  their  own  volition  and  get  the  payment  at  double  rate.    The  leader  of  the 

Opposition  party  wants  that  they  should  not  progress.    It  is  now  incumbent  upon 

the  factory  owner  to  ensure  a  conducive  environment  in  the  factory  and  if  the 

temperature  inside  the  factory  is  not  in  permissible  range  then  the  factory  owner 

will  be  liable  for  punishment.    Under  a  new  provision,  uniform,  safety  and  safe 

drinking  water  is  the  responsibility  of  the  factory  owner.   The  leader of  the  main 

Opposition  party  was  saying  that  this  Bill  could  have  been  brought  in  the  next 

session.  They did not bring such a labour friendly Bill in last forty years as they do 

not  have  any  concern  for  workers.  I  would  request  the  hon.  Minister  to  bring 

another  Bill  to  ensure  payment  of  minimum  wages  to  every  worker  and  a  plate 

specifying the norms relating to minimum wages should be displayed at the gate of 

factory.  Hon. Prime Minister has stated that every worker will be self-reliant in the 

country by the year 2021.    

 

