  In  the  year  1980-81  the 

Government of India had decided that the GDP data will be revised after every 10 

years  and  the  data  in  ensuing  years  will  follow  after  taking  that  year  as  a  base.  

However,  your  Government  at  that  time  revised  the  base  year  for  the  period 

starting from 1980-81 in the year 1999 while the base year of the data beginning in 

the year 1993-94 to 1999-2000 was revised in the year 2006.   In the year 2010 the 

rational given for revising the base year every five years in place of every 10 years 

was  that  the  economy  was  expanding  very  fast.    The  next  revision  which  should 

have been done after five years since 2006 was done in the year 2010 itself.  Now 

when our Government is revising the base year on 30th January, 2015 after a gap of 

five  years  then  the  criticism  is  made  giving  the  argument  that  the  data  itself  is 

doubtful.      I  would  like  to  know  what  kind  of  message  is  being  sent  across  the 

world by raising such issues.  The second question which has been raised concerns 

the reduction in the rate of corporate tax from 30 to 25 per cent.   The Government 

wants to take the country on the path of progress.  The MSME sector contributes 

45-50 per cent to our exports and it also generates largest amount of employment.   

It  was  also  said  that  the  world  over  direct  taxes  are  more  as  compared  to  the 

indirect  taxes  while  the  reverse  is  true  in  respect  of  India  where  direct  taxes  are 

decreasing  while indirect taxes are increasing.  If we are to accept your view point 

that  the  direct  taxes  should  be  more  and  these  are  raised  at  the  level  of  what  is 

prevalent in America and Europe then will we not revisit the situation prevailing in 

the year 1970 and will it not be increasing the flow of black money?  Another issue 

which was raised is related to the amendment in the Income Tax Act wherein this 

fear was expressed that any tax assessing officer could even open the cases as old 

as 1962 and also this message is being given that we have vested so much powers 

into the income tax authorities that they can scrutinize any case since the year 1962 

and they do not need to offer any explanation in this regard.  However, when  this 

announcement was made by the Finance Minister during his budget speech, he had 

clearly  expressed  that  we  are  going  to  ensure  a  lot  of  accountability  on  the  IRS 

officers.    I  would  also  like  to  mention  as  to  how  hawala  operations  used  to  take 

place  in  the  country  from  2009 to  2013-14.   The  then  Government  never  tried to 

plug  the  loopholes  to  address  that  problem.    Now  our  Government  is  trying  to 

make  Aadhaar  mandatory.    Similar  irregularities  are  also  to  be  seen  in  case  of 

TDS.    In  more  than  35  per  cent  of  the  TDS  cases  one  cannot  be  sure  about  the 

credentials  of  the  concerned  persons.    The  changes  brought  about  by  this 

Government  are  major  in  nature.    The  reports  of  the  World  Bank  and  IMF  have 

been  continuously  lauding  the  tax  reforms  in  India  and  the  subsequent  growth 

opportunity in the economy which it paves the way for.   

 

