  The  recent  price  rise  in  the  essential 

commodities  is  of  very  serious  concern  as  it  is  hurting  the  common  man.  This  is 

mainly because there is no supportive government policy which could have helped 

to  raise  the  pulses  production  by  giving  more  incentives  to  the  farmers  growing 

onions, tomatoes and pulses. Another major reason for the prevailing high prices is 

the policy of the government is not passing on the benefits of reduced crude prices 

to  the  ultimate  consumers.  Whenever  there  is  increase  in  crude  oil  prices  at  the 

global level the retail prices of petrol and diesel are automatically raised. However 

when there is fall in global oil prices the entire benefit is not passed on resulting in 

high petrol and diesel prices. Another reason for increase of prices is the rise in the 

cost of inputs like seeds, fertilisers, pesticides, and labour costs. Because of this the 

farmers  are  at  losing  end  and  many  of  them,  unable  to  survive  are  migrating  to 

urban  areas  in  search  of  livelihood.  I  represent  a  constituency  which  is  a  major 

producer  to  tomatoes  and  onions.  In  any  given  year  the  lows  and  highs  of  these 

products are more than 10 fold. The price to tomatoes vary from Rs. 2 per kg to Rs. 

60 per kg. I have personally seen and consoled the families when the farmers have 

thrown  their  produce  on  the  road  as  the  price  does  not  even  cover  the 

transportation  costs.  The  main  beneficiaries  of  this  would  be  the  speculators, 

hoarders, middlemen, and the  farmer  is  the  victim.  If  proper  storage  facilities  are 

developed  the  price  can  be  maintained  at  the  a  reasonable  level  benefitting  the 

farmer and the consumer. Rising prices encourage hoarding, black-marketing and 

corruption.  There  is  no  minimum  support  price  mechanism.  Because  of  this 

farmers are switching over the cash crops, because of better return and lower risk. 

The  measures  include  improving  our  farm  infrastructure  like  setting  up  of 

warehouses, cold-storage units etc. I also strongly recommend that support prices 

can  be  announced  for  farm  produce  like  dal,  onions  and  tomatoes.  Stern  action 

shall  be  taken  against  hoarders  and  middle  men.  Proper  marketing  facilities  shall 

be developed which will ensure removal of middle man. 

 

