  Today  we  are  discussing 

the astronomical rise in price of essential commodities, an issue which touches all 

citizens  and  deeply  affects  the  weaker  and  vulnerable  sections  of  society.  During 

the last two years the prices of all essential commodities have shot up and some of 

the  pulses  have  vanished  from  the  market  consequent  to  the  large-scale  hoarding 

and  black  marketing  by  unscrupulous  profiteers.  Pulses  are  the  main  source  of 

protein and nutrition for the common man. The jump in price has put pulses out of 

reach for the poor. It is not only the pulses - The price of cereals, vegetables, fruits, 

salt,  sugar,  dairy  products  and  every  other  item  in  the  essential  food  basket  has 

exorbitantly  risen.  The  middleclass  in  forced  to  cut  their  daily  budget  due  to  this 

unprecedented jump in price. The Government says it is due to the adverse weather 

condition that such a calamitous situation has arisen and therefore the sharp decline 

in agriculture production. That being the case what contingent measures have been 

taken  by  the  Government  to  meet  such  an  eventuality?  What  is  required  is  to 

enhance  investment  in  agriculture,  to  extend  easy  farm  loans  to  agriculturists  at 

low interest and to make available quality seeds and fertilizers at reasonable cost. 

Crop  insurance  and  minimum  support  price  for  agriculture  produce  are  other 

important  requirements  for  stepping  up  agriculture  production.  Another  reason 

assigned  by  the  Government  for  the  price  rise  is  the  escalation  in  transport  cost. 

The  cost of  petroleum  product  was  104 Dollars  per barrel. It  is  now  at  40  Dollar 

per barrel. Why the benefit of this sharp fall in price has not reached the masses? 

The  Government  has  taken  the  meeting  of  the  State  Food  Ministers  in  Delhi  to 

evolve concrete strategy to stabilize price. Unless we streamline and strengthen the 

Public Distribution System across the country we will not be able to  provide man 

at affordable prices. It is a tragedy that this Government miserably failed to contain 

the  price  of  essential  commodities  as  to  check  food  inflation.  The  Food  security 

that we have attained over the years is facing grave threats. We have had enough of 

rhetoric  -  what  we  want  is  holistic  approach  towards  agriculture  growth  and 

welfare of farmers. Inflation trajectory will depend upon how well the food supply 

is managed by the Government in the coming months. Complacency will lead the 

farmers and the public to peril. It is time to act.  

 

