  This  Bill  will  legalize  the  acquisition  of  five 

banks. We are actually doing an ex post facto action of things which have already 

been  done.  I  rise  to  say  that  I  am  not  opposed  to  the  State  Bank  (Repeal  and 

Amendment) Bill.  Now, having said that, why I do not support the Bill wholesale 

is due to three questions which I will pose before you.  My question is how much 

money was deposited after demonetization till now?  How much money has been 

deposited in the State Bank of India? Now, let me oppose some of the anti-people 

decisions  of  the  State  Bank  of  India.  The  savings  bank  interest  rate  was  four  per 

cent.  Now  it  has  been  reduced  to  3.5  per  cent.    This  is  an  anti-people  decision.  

Earlier,  the  minimum  balance  for  a  savings  bank  account  without  cheque  facility 

was  Rs.1,000  across  the  country.  Now,  the  minimum  balance  for  the  metro 

branches  will  be  Rs.5,000.The  penalty  for  non-maintenance  of  minimum  balance 

will between Rs.50 and Rs.100. After four withdrawals from the ATM in a month, 

a  service  charge  of  Rs.50  plus  service  tax  per  transaction  will  be  applicable  for 

basic  Savings  Bank  Deposit  Account.    This  step  by  the  State  Bank  of  India  will 

harm  altogether  31  crore  people.  IMPS  fund  transfer  charges  through  internet 

banking  is  also  an  anti-people  decision.  I  want  to  say  that  at  this  stage,  the  State 

Bank  of  India  is  having  the  biggest  NPA,  Non-Performing  Asset.    We  are  only 

hoodwinking the  common  people  just by  showing, we  have done  a  big  thing;  we 

have merged all the banks into one.  In Kerala, there was an agitation against the 

merger  of  the  State  Bank  of  Travancore.  We  could  have  opposed  the  Bill.    We 

could  have  given  resolution  and  amendments  but  that  is  quite  pointless.  This 

Government, with its brute majority, will bulldoze the Bill in the Lok Sabha.  

 

