  As  far  as  price  rise  is 

concerned, it is a question of life and death for the common people of India.  Last 

time I initiated the discussion on price rise.  But the Government did not give any 

reply  to  that  discussion.    NDA  during  election  campaign  promised  to  the  nation 

that if they are voted to power they would control price rise and ensure supply of 

essential  commodities  to  the  common  people  at  the  minimum  price.    For  the  last 

two  years,  the  prices  of  almost  all  the  essential  commodities  have  gone  up.    It  is 

not possible for the common people to buy pulses.  The prices of onion has risen 

nearly 300 per cent or more in the last month in Delhi.  Price are going up due to 

black marketing and hoarding.  Government has to take stringent steps to control 

these.    There  is  another  factor  which  is  even  more  alarming  and  that  is  the 

increasing  prices  of  petrol  and  diesel.    Now  the  price  of  crude  oil  in  the 

international market has come down.  Excise duty and prices of petroleum products 

have  been  hiked,  which  is  a  burden  on  the  farmers.    Prices  of  all  essential 

commodities like pulses have increased.  Food inflation has reached eight per cent.  

Condition has worsened by increase in various taxes and imposition of new cesses.  

The  Government  says  that  they  have  given  1.5  lakh  jobs  for  the  youths  but  1.3 

crores youths have joined the market.  Though you have accumulated money, you 

are  not  spending  it  even  for  the  employment  of  the  youth.    Rich  are  becoming 

richer and poor the poorer.  You can say that the GDP is high in India.  But at the 

same time, condition of the common people is pitiable.  Due to this high inflation 

rate, the farmers, the Government employees and the industrial workers are not in a 

position to survive.  The wholesale price index was 1.62 in June, 2016, but it used 

to be 0.79 earlier.  In the Budget speech made by the Finance Minister in 2016-17, 

he  said  that  monitoring  the  prices  of  essential  commodities  is  a  key  element  of 

good  governance.    He  stated  that  a  sum  of  Rs.900  crore  is  allocated  for  market 

intervention.    I  want  to  know  from  the  Government  whether  this  Rs.900  crore  is 

spent.    If  yes,  for  what  purpose  the  amount  has  been  spent  and  why  is  there  no 

result  in  the  market?    What  is  the  present  programme  before  the  Government  to 

curtail food inflation?  Lack of storage facilities caused big loss to food items.  The 

Government  should  go  for  massive  investment  in  agriculture  sector.  The 

Government  also  has  to intervene  for  the better public  distribution system.   I  can 

complement  the  Tamil  Nadu  Government  because  before  we  passed  the  Food 

Security  Act  at  the  Centre,  they  had  done  a  good  work.    It  should  be  taken  as  a 

model  and  to  be  taken  to  other  States  also.    The  Government  should  effectively 

deal  with  the  issue  of  deficient  supply,  including  effective  intervention  against 

hoarding.    The  need  of  the  hour  is  to  take  very  speedy  action  to  bring  down  the 

prices.  Price rise is the villain of any Government.  You say that this is "Shining 

India' but on the other side we  see the 'Suffering India'.  The Government should 

address  the  question  of  speculative  trade  and  future  trade.    This  creates  artificial 

inflation.  The  Government  has  to  stop  the  different  types  of  cess.    If  agricultural 

growth  goes  up  by  one  per  cent,  GDP  grows  by  more  than  0.75  per  cent  and 

industry  grows  by  more  than  0.5  per  cent.    So  the  Government  has  to  give  good 

MSP for the farmers.   

 

SHRI  RAHUL  GANDHI:  I  want  to  remind  our  Prime  Minister  of  a 

promise  he  had  made  to  every  Indian.    He  had  promised  to  check  price  rise.  

Recently the Government celebrated completion of its two years in office.  In that 

celebration  programme  the  Prime  Minister  mentioned  several  programmes  of  the 

government viz. 'Swachchh Bharat', 'Make in India' and 'StartUp India' etc.  But he 

did not make a mention of price rise.  Prices of pulses and vegetables have spiked.  

Earlier, the difference between MSP and market price of pulses was Rs.30 which 

has now gone upto Rs.130.  In the year 2008 oil prices were at the level of $110 

per  barrel.    Even  at  that  time  the  Congress  Party  and  Manmohan  Singhji  waived 

the loans of farmers to the tune of Rs.70,000 crore.  Now, the petroleum prices are 

at $44 per barrel.  Your government saves Rs. 2 lakh crore every year.  Last year 

you  waived  loans  of  big  industrialists  amounting  Rs.52000  crore  but  what  have 

you given to the farmers of the country.  I want that the government should give an 

assurance  to  this  House as to by  when  the  country  can  expect  the prices  to  come 

down.   

 

