  Agriculture  is  a  backbone  of  our 

country.    Our  country  can  become  a  Super  Power  in  the  comity  of  nations,  only 

when  the  livelihood,  economy  and  social  status  of  farmers  are  improved  upon.  

With  utmost  priority  the  Union  Government  should  strive  in  that  direction.  

                                                           
* Original in Tamil 

Therefore,  it  should  be  the  topmost  priority  of  the  Union  Government  to  ensure 

hassle  free  bank  loans  for  farmers.  The  Government  has  announced  a  plan  for 

doubling  the  income  of  farmers  in  the  next  five  years.    I  welcome  this  initiative.  

But  the  practical  difficulties,  which  are  plenty,  should  be  identified  and  rectified.  

If  not,  it  would  be  a  distant  dream.    It  is  really  unfortunate  that  the  Union 

Government has not paid any attention to the demand of Tamil Nadu Government 

for release of several thousands of crore rupees as a relief measure.  I urge upon the 

Union  Government  to  immediately  release  the  drought  relief  assistance  to  Tamil 

Nadu.    Due  to  river-water  disputes  between  the  states,  farmers  and  agricultural 

production are  both affected very  much.   Due  to  which, Thanjavur  region, which 

was  once  the  granary  of  South  India,  has  now  become  infertile.    Union 

Government  should  find  a  solution  to  this  significant  problem.    The  Union 

Government should intervene  in this  matter  so  as to find  a permanent  solution of 

the  Cauvery  water  problem.    Farmers  can  sell  their  produce  through  e-commerce 

market. This  is  a  welcome  decision. There  should  be  adequate  allocation  of  duns 

enabling us to reach the target of doubling the income of farmers in the next five 

years.  All the rivers of the country should be interlinked.  Agricultural labourers 

should be included in MGNREGA scheme. The long pending demand of setting up 

of an agricultural commission should be fulfilled.  As an alternate to petrol, use of 

ethanol-blended  fuel  can  improve  our  rural  economy.    There  should  be  adequate 

subsidy  for  encouraging  famers  who  are  engaged  in  cultivation  of  pulses,  grains 

and  oil  seeds.    There  should  be  reforms  I  Public  Distribution  System.    I  urge  the 

Union  Government  to  make  all  efforts  to  improve  the  livelihood  of  farmers, 

besides increasing agricultural production. 

 

