  At  present,  our  country  has  got  five  inland 

waterways.    Volume  of  transportation  and  movement  of  vehicles  is  increasing 

tremendously and if we do not provide alternative transportation then the situation 

will take dimension of serious problem in future in the country.  The Government 

intends to convert 101 rivers into waterways.  So far average per day construction 

of highways in the country was two km which has increased to 18 to 20 km per day 

in  a  short  period  of  18  months  only.    We  are  far  behind  in  terms  of  national 

waterways than USA and China.  In US, there are 10,000 km waterways and about 

60 million tonne cargo is transported through waterways.  Similarly, China has got 

11 thousand waterways and they transport about 100 trillion tone of cargo through 

waterways  which  is  2500  times  more  than  that  of  India.    Our  country  has  got  a 

potential  of  14,500  km  inland  waterways.    If  we  realize  this  target  then  we  can 

transport  44  million  tonne  cargo  through  our  inland  waterways.    National 

Waterways-I,  Haldia  to  Varanasi  is  not  functional.    Ships  cannot  move  on  its 

riverbed.  Haldia-Allahabad Waterways was declared as a National Waterways-I in 

the year 1986 under the Ganga-Bhagirathi-Hooghly River system.   Since then, it 

was  being  maintained  for  navigation  and  shipping.    However,  owing  to  less 

quantity  of  water  in  the  upper  part,  this  waterways  could  not  be  utilized 

commercially.  If we are not able to commercially utilize our waterways then we 

cannot  benefit  from  them.    If  people  are  invited  under  PPP  model  then  many 

individuals  can  participate  under  global  tender.    They  can  develop  these 

waterways.    Hon.  Minister  should  explain  as  to  what  steps  he  is  going  to  take  in 

this regard and how various things will be coordinated with the states and whether 

some MoU will be signed with the states.  

 

DR.  RATNA  (NAG)  DE:  The  Bill  proposes  to  merge  five  existing  acts 

which have been declared as five National Waterways and proposes 101 additional 

National Waterways.  The Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture 

in  its  report  observed  the  overall  organizational  set  up  and  offices  of  the  Inland 

Waterways  Authority  of  India  are  not  sufficient  enough  to  undertake  the  tasks 

related to 101 additional National Waterways.  There is a need to study the overall 

organizational set up and offices if we really aim to benefit with the passage of the 

Bill.  The States know about its waterways.   This is most vital.  Otherwise, there 

would  be  tension  between  the  Centre  and  the  States.    I  would  request  the  hon. 

Minister  to  clear  the  views  of  the  Ministry  about  this  specific  aspect  which 

infringes  the  power  of  the  States.  In  West  Bengal,  12  rivers  have  been  identified 

for  national  waterways.    There  are  important  places  on  both  sides  of  the  river, 

Bhagirathi in West Bengal like Nabadwip and Mayapur.  Are there any plans with 

the Ministry to develop these places as they have lot of religious importance?  That 

is the reason why I would like to request the hon. Minister to consider connecting 

Kolkata  with  these  two  places  through  the  waterways.    Regular  dredging  and 

desilting of rivers is required. 

 

