 This Bill is related to one of the 

most beautiful state of India having population of about one crore people.  People 

of Uttarakhand want to maintain the dignity of our Constitution and to ensure that 

they  voted  Congress  to  power  by  exercising  their  democratic  rights.    And  this 

Congress Government brought the Appropriation Bill in the beginning of this year 

for the upliftment and better future of Uttarakhand.  On 13th March, Money Bill or 

Appropriation  Bill was passed.  On 20th March, a collective decision was taken by 

the Governor, Speaker and the Chief Minister that floor test would be undertaken  

on 28th March but proclamation regarding President Rule was made on 27th March.  

Why the Government was in such a hurry?  What type of politics they are resorting 

to?  Now,  again why this Government is in a hurry to bring Appropriation Bill or 

Ordinance  Bill  today  only  whereas  floor  test  is  scheduled  for  tomorrow  only?  

Now-a-days  BJP  is  having  two  political  tools.    First  is  Article  356  and  other  is 

Ordinance.    Dr.  Ambedkhar  has  himself  said  that  Article  356  should  be  used  in 

rare  of  the  rarest  cases  whereas  your  Government  has  used  it  two  times  within  a 

period of three  months.   First time  in  the  70  years, politicians  at Raisena  Hills  in 

Delhi are deciding that whether any Bill have been passed or not in the Assembly 

of  any  state.    When  the  Speaker  of  Assembly  has  said  that  Money  Bill  has  been 

passed,  that  cannot  be  questioned.    But  BJP  is  claiming  that  this  has  not  been 

passed.  On what basis this Government is making such claim.  Government should 

respect  the  election  system  and  they  should  have  trust  in  the  people.    Today,  we 

demand  justice  for  the  one  crore  people  of  Uttarakhand  who  have  elected  a 

government  in  the  year  2012.    We  also  request  that  the  Government  should  not 

create  such  an  environment  which  further  creates  conflict  with  the  court  and  in 

particular, authority of the Speaker of the House should not be challenged.   

 

