  We  should  not  be  taken  in  by 

the  jugglery  of figures because it  is quite  clear that price  rise is  the legacy  of the 

UPA Government. This Government has passed the benefit of fall in prices of oil 

to  the  poor  families.  The  Government  has  passed  this  benefit  to  the  poor,  dalits, 

workers,  and  farmers  by  launching  several  welfare  schemes  including  Krishi 

Sinchai  Yojna.  The  Government  has  provided  gas  connection  to  the  poor  at  the 

cheaper rate. Now, the poor families are getting the gas stove and gas cylinder at 

Rs. 1500 and they also get a subsidy of Rs. 130 for every gas cylinder. Are  these 

not  the  measures  intended  to  check  the  price  rise?  The  farmers  are  getting  the 

benefit of reduced fertilizer prices. Prices of medicines have  also been reduced. Is 

this  benefit  not  going  to  accrue  to  the  poor?  The  price  of  medicines  to  cure 

Diabetes,  TB,  Cancer  etc.  have  also  been  reduced.    The  Pradhan  Mantri  Krishi 

Sinchai Yojna will reduce poverty and it will ensure irrigation facilities for every 

farm along with reduced prices of fertilizers which will result in diminished input 

cost for the farmers leading to increase in income and production. The main reason 

for  increase  in  the  price  of  pulses  is  the  persistently  falling  sowing  area  for  the 

pulses  and  the  policies  of  previous  governments  are  responsible  for  it.  The 

Government  has  increased  the  support  price  of  pulses  by  Rs.  300  and  have  also 

taken various short-term and long-term  measures for increasing the production of 

pulses.  The  Government  of  India  have  been  talking  about  five  short-term  and 

fifteen long-term specific plans. All these plans are going to take time to fructify. 

As  these  plans  get  implemented,  they  will  result  in  increasing  prosperity  for  the 

farmers. The  attack on  this  Government  by  taking  the  help  of  figures  is  certainly 

misplaced  because  it  is  the  previous  governments  led  by  a  political  party  which 

share  the  responsibility  for  price  increase  because  it  is  they  who  have  ruled  for 

more  than  fifty  years.    It  is  for  the  first  time  that  the  rules  of  the  game  have 

changed  with  the  change  in  players  at  the  helm  and  there  is  no  stopping  to  this 

trend now. The poor farmers, workers, backwards and Dalits of India will stand up 

with pride and create a new India under the leadership of Modi.  

 

