 We have been adding castes under Article 341 and Article 

342  whereas  15-20  per  cent  people  are  getting  jobs  by  virtue  of  making  fake  SC 

certificates.  The Supreme Court gave a judgment on 11th March.  This judgment 

is  against providing them  reservation in promotion.   The  population of scheduled 

castes  accounts  for  16.2  per  cent  as  per  the  2001  census.    So  there  should  be 

corresponding increase in reservation also but the government has never taken this 

fact  in  view.    There  are  many  anomalies  in  regard  to  reservation.    For  example 

there are some castes which are covered under reservation but in reality they do not 

deserve  reservation  because  these  castes  are  not  socially  backward.    Political 

parties  have  not  shown  courage  so  far  to  remove  such  castes  the  ambit  of 

reservation by conducting a proper study.  This problem has been persistent since 

independence.  There are another anomalies like a caste known as Khatik is given 

the status of scheduled caste in Uttar Pradesh but same caste comes under OBC in 

Andhra  Pradesh  and  Maharashtra.    There  are  also  some  castes  which  are  known 

with  same  name  and  their  occupation  is  also  same  and  their  sociological  and 

anthropological profile is also same but their categorisation is different in various 

states.  I, therefore, request hon. Minister to conduct a comprehensive and in depth 

study in order remove such anomalies.   

 

SHRI BALKA SUMAN: There are several demands from the people of SC 

and  ST  communities  of  this  country.    They  want  reservation  in  private  sector.  

There  is  also  a  demand  for  reservation  in  judiciary  -  the  High  Courts  and  the 

Supreme Court.  We request you to implement it.  Many atrocities  on SC and ST 

people  in  this  country  have  been  taking  place  after  NDA  Government  came  into 

power.  Finally, I would like to say so long as  a Dalit leader does not become the 

Prime  Minister  of  this  country,    all  the  issues  concerning  dalits,  tribals  and 

minorities of the country cannot be addressed properly.   

 

