  The  farming  community  in  India  was  among  the 

most prosperous communities in the world upto the year 1760.  However, it is also 

well-known to everyone as to what happened to the condition of the farmers after 

1947 continuing upto the next 55 years of Congress Rule.  The farmers reached a 

pathetic condition.  The Union Government has set a target of doubling the income 

of the farmers by the year 2022.  This will prove a very revolutionary step.  If we 

compare  the  growth  rate  in  agriculture  sector  during  the  current  year  with    the 

previous period we will find that the growth rate has accelerated to 4.2 per cent as 

against  the  earlier  rate  of  2-3 per  cent.   As  against  a provision  of Rs.44250  crore 

during the year 2016-17 the Government has made a provision of Rs.51026 crore 

by increasing the allocation by 15 per cent.  I would like to urged the government 

for  providing  fair  and  remunerative  price  for  their  produce.    If  the  Government 

procures wheat, cotton and gram then this step can go a long way in benefitting the 

farmers.    The  new  gates  of  prosperity  are  being  opened  for  India  under  the 

leadership  of  this  Government.    The  Government  has  made  a  provision  of  Rs. 

50000 crore to ensure that irrigation facilities are available to every farm.  I would 

like to congratulate the government for making a good head start for the upliftment 

and  prosperity  of  the  farmers  because  it  is  in  the  prosperity  of  the  farmers  the 

prosperity  of  nation  lies.    The  beginning  of  the  government  in  starting  Neem 

coated Urea is certainly a beneficial step for the farmers.  There are three   central 

farms in Sriganganagar which are situated at Suratgarh, Sardargarh and Jaitsar.  I 

would  like  to  request  the  hon.  Agriculture  Minister  to  open  either  an  agriculture 

university or agriculture research centre or a skill development centre at that place 

so that the farmers could be benefitted.  Agriculture sector should also be covered 

under MNREGA.   

  

