  What  astonished  us  was  the 

manner  in  which  Government  is  trying  to  push  through  this  Bill.    They  neither 

mentioned  about  the  Standing  Committee  nor  about  the  BAC.    Today,  only  the 

print of the Bill has been received and the Government intend to get it passed by 

holding discussion on it. I am happy that Government is trying to think something 

about this sector, about the apparel exports.  But what the Government is doing is 

actually  not  addressing  the  root  cause  of  such  a  steep  decline  in  the  textile  and 

apparel  exports  from  our  country.    Textile  sector  is  a  very  important  sector.    It 

accounts  for  22  per  cent  of  unorganized  labour  in  the  country.    Decline  of  China 

has  opened  up  various  opportunities  for  India  to  replace  China  as  an  engine  of 

global  growth.  But  unfortunately,  because  of  the  policy  of  the  Government,  the 

Indian economy has not been able to strive ahead to the extent that it can replace 

China  as  a global engine of  economic  growth. The World  Bank  report  states that 

India  is  losing  out  to  Cambodia,  Indonesia  and  Vietnam  in  the  race  for  greater 

share in the global apparel market being relinquished by China. The Government is 

providing  the  manufacturers  a  temporary  relief.  This  relief  is  going  to  affect 

millions of workers working in this industry and we should be very cautious when 

we  come  out  with  the  new  amendment  which  reduces  the  man  hour  requirement 

from  240  days  to  150  days.  The  Government  needs  to  do  more  to  safeguard  the 

interests  of  the  apparel  and  textile  manufacturers  and  exporters  of  our  country. 

Second  aspect  of  the  Bill  is  with  regard  to  exemption  of  capital  gains  tax  while 

transferring  a  piece  of  land  in  case  of  de-merger  for  the  PSU.  This  seems  like  a 

well intentioned aspect of the Bill in this particular case. We will support the land 

getting  vested  back  in  the  hands  of  the  Government  and  saving  the  Government 

from  the  capital  gains  tax.  But  we  have  to  think  about  all  the  other  cases  and 

aspects in future. How it will affect some of the other potential cases is something 

that the Government needs to take a look at and explain. The third aspect is about 

the  marble  industry  and  raising  the  tariff  barrier  from  10  to  40  per  cent.  This 

Government believes in putting more burden of taxation on the poor, that is why, 

collecting  more  revenues  through  indirect  taxes.  Supporting  the  Bill,  we  will  ask 

the Government to be very cautious about all the points that we have raised, and to 

provide an answer so that we can be confident about our support.   

 

