  There  are  two  problems  with 

the one per cent additional tax. Since the States are anyway to be compensated for 

their losses, there is really no rational explanation for why the one per cent tax had 

to be introduced. Secondly, the tax may not end at the end of two years since the 

Bill  says  that  the  period  can  be  extended  by  the  GST  Council.  Since  the  real 

benefits of the GST will flow only once tax rates get lowered, the presence of the 

one per cent tax will only add to the overall costs. According to Section 18 of the 

Bill,  one  per  cent  tax  is  to  apply  to  all  supply  of  goods  and  not  sales.  In  other 

words,  if  there  are  branch/stock  transfers  within  a  company  across  State 

boundaries, the tax will be applicable to this. Given the large number of inter-State 

transfers within firms, this could raise the tax level to as high as five per cent. An 

equally  big  problem  is  relating  to  real  estate.  Since  this  has  been  kept  out  of  the 

GST, this means that there will be input tax credit on items like cement and steel 

that are used in the construction sector. Given how construction capital expenditure 

is around 35-40 of all capital investment in the country, this is a very big area that 

is being kept out. Until all the economy is covered by the GST, and this will take 

years, the 2 per cent benefit being talked about is not going to materialize and the 1 

per cent type taxes will only add to the delay. I do not know why this Government 

is hell bent upon not sending the legislative document to the Standing Committee 

for the scrutiny. I would like to share the concern of the State Governments. The 

Telangana  Finance  Minster  has  told  the  Central  Government  that  it  must  pay 

compensation  to  States  for  the  abolition  of  Central  Sales  Tax  before  going  ahead 

with the Goods and Services Tax. Odisha Government has demanded the Centre to 

release Central Sales Tax loss amount of Rs. 3,255 crore before implementation of 

the  proposed  Goods  and  Services  Tax  in  the  country.  Haryana  and  Punjab  are 

opposed to the proposal to subsume purchase tax in GST, arguing that it will lead 

to  revenue  losses.  Maharashtra  and  Gujarat  are  for  levying  an  additional  tax  on 

production beyond two years and have also demanded that this tax be increased to 

two per cent. Mizoram, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have demanded that they be 

allowed to levy higher taxes on tobacco and tobacco products similar to the Central 

Government.  Tamil  Nadu  said  that  the  Centre  should  evolve  a  consensus  on 

various  aspects  of  GST  like  taxes  before  pushing  the  Constitution  (Amendment) 

Bill.  The  BJP  Government,  both    at  the  Centre  and  in  States,  had  vehemently 

opposed the GST announced by the UPA Government and is now for its passage in 

this House.  

 

