    The  Goods  and  Services 

Tax  Bill  is  a  historic  step in  the direction  of  economic  reforms  in the  country.  

On  the  one  hand,  this  step  reflects  the  basic  spirit  of  our  Constitution  and  it 

makes  the  tax  administration  transparent  and  effective  for  both  the  Center  and 

States besides creating a new history in the direction of realisation of maximum 

of revenue through tax collection.  I think the steps which the Government has 

taken  in  the  last  few  years  are  historic  in  terms  of  strengthening  of  economic 

system  in  the  country.    GST  will  rein  in  black  money,  it  will  remove  all  the 

complexities  of  taxation,  curb  tax  evasion,  facilitate  recording  of  the  whole 

process right from the raw material in computer and will enable us to compete 

in  global  competition.    It  will  generate  more  revenue.    It  will  bring  about 

uniformity  in  tax  rates  and structures.   Governance  will be streamlined  for the 

central  and  the  state  governments.    Prices  will  be  controlled  in  every  state 

through  uniform  taxation.    Goods  will  become  cheaper  and  there  will  be  no 

double  taxation.    After  the  implementation  of  the  GST,  various  types  of  taxes 

will automatically be removed.  There will be no inspector raj and tax evasion.  

This  will  be  the  biggest  achievement.    In  the  wake  of  the  enforcement  of  the 

GST,  GDP  will  rise  by  around  1-2  per  cent  as  a  result  of  which  revolutionary 

and  innovative  schemes  of  the  Prime  Minister  such  as  Make  in  India,  Digital 

India,  Skill  India,  Startup  India  and  Standup  India  will  be  implemented  and 

unemployment will also be removed.  GST Council has been constituted, there 

is one Central Council and Councils at the States and there are representatives 

of  31  states  where  there  is  also  a  provision  enabling  them  to  give  their 

suggestions.    New  rules  could  be  formed  at  the  recommendation  of  the  GST 

Council  which  could  be  notified  through  official  gazette.    This  is  a  welcome 

step  of  the  Government.    The  reimbursement  amount  to  the  states  will  be 

assessed  on  the  basis  of  the  financial  year  2015-16.    The  reimbursement  fund 

for  the  GST  will  be  constituted  through  a  cess.    The  loss  to  states  will  be 

reimbursed.    This  day  will  turn  out  to  be  a  milestone  in  the  direction  of 

economic revolution of the country.   

 

