 The problem of rising prices is there all over the world. 

But this problem is more serious in India than anywhere else. Price rise is one of 

the  most  ticklish  current  problems  which  our  developing  economy  faces  today. 

Prices of almost all the essential commodities have been rising at an alarming rate. 

People belonging to poor and middle class are hit the hardest. Drastic efforts shall 

have  to  be  taken  by  all  concerned  to  put  an  end  to  this  issue.  The  Central 

Government should take effective steps to bring down the prices. The Tamil Nadu 

Government has taken various steps like Amma Canteen, very efficient PDS, and 

various  other  welfare  measures  to  mitigate  the  effects  of  rising  inflation.  The 

supply  of  free  rice  to  poor  under  PDS  has  greatly  helped  a  vast  majority  of  the 

population  in  the  State  and  protected  them  against  the  rise  in  food  prices. 

Encouraged by this, the Tamil Nadu Government decided to supply other essential 

commodities  like  palm  oil,  urad  and  toor  dal  to  the  people  at  reasonable  prices. 

This has acted as a bulwark protecting the common people against the abnormally 

high  prices.  I  request  the  Central  Government  to  completely  exempt  Tamil  Nadu 

from the implementation of the Food Security Act till the concerns of Tamil Nadu 

are fully addressed by the Centre.  I would like to suggest the Government of India 

to  take  the  following  steps  and  protect  the  poor  against  the  rising  prices.    First, 

stringent  and  deterrent  action  must  be  taken  against  the  black-marketeers  and 

hoarders.    The  Centre  can  also  subsidize  food  items,  including  pulses  and  edible 

oils.    Frequent  increase  in  the  petrol,  diesel  prices  is  another  issue  which  has  a 

cascading  effect  on  the  prices  of  other  commodities.    The  government  can  also 

think  of  subsidizing  the  railway  freight  rates  for  moving  essential  commodities 

from  one  State  to  other.    To  encourage  inter-State  and  intra-State  movement  of 

vegetables and fruits, the vehicles carrying vegetables and fruits for domestic use 

may  be  exempted  from  toll  tax.   The  Government  should  also  think  of providing 

adequate input subsidy to farmers to encourage production of pulses. 

 

THE  MINISTER  OF  FINANCE  AND  MINISTER  OF  CORPORATE 

