  It is the mindset 

of this Government to share power with the States.  This Government believes in 

federalism  and  believes  in  strengthening  the  hands  of  the  States,  and  this 

amendment  is  aimed  at  taking  the  power  to  the  States.    One  hon.  Member  from 

TDP,  said  that  instead  of  crediting  the  Supreme  Court,  it  should  be  treated  as  an 

amendment  which  is  desired  by  the  people  India  and,  therefore,  the  Parliament 

should take the credit for it.  I want to say that it is a very well amendment which is 

brought  here  whether    in  recognition  or  in  following  up  of  the  Supreme  Court's 

decision, or in following up of the Law Commission, it is actually happening here.  

It is the will of the elected Members of the House, which is going to pass this.  I 

fully  agree  with  the suggestion  on  ethanol  mix  for  energy  efficiency  and  also  for 

the  sake  of  protecting  environment.      This  Government  is  taking  a  lot  of  steps 

towards  it.    In  doing  so,  we  are  ensuring  that  farmers  get  better  price  for  their 

produce.   So far as GST is concerned whatever is going to happen in the process 

of getting GST, I do not need to speak about it.  But one thing which will have to 

be very clearly voiced is that with this Bill, the amendment that we are bringing in 

here  is  more  to  define  with  clarity  what  is  with  the  State  and  what  is  with  the 

Centre.  At present, the excise duty on potable alcohol is being levied by the State 

Governments.    Government  are  opposed  to  the  Supreme  Court  verdict.    That 

comes under a separate Act and is not covered by this one at all.  I hope, eventually 

alcohol or ethanol which is produced goes towards energy efficiency, goes towards 

improving  our  use  in  the  fuel  efficiency  rather  than  for  production  of  potable 

alcohol which goes for human consumption, which does have a detrimental effect 

on human health.  

The Bill was passed. 

 

