  The  Bill  contains 

provisions  at  every  level  to  ensure  the  all  round  development  of  the  disabled 

people.  An hon. Member have suggested that the provisions of the Bill should also 

have private institutions under its ambit.  I would like to say that the provisions of 

Bill  would  also  be  implemented  in  those  private  institution  which  are  recognized 

by  the  government.    A  suggestion  for  enhancing  the  reservation  has  been  made.  

As  per  the  Census  of  2011  the  number  of  disabled  persons  in  India  comes  to  2 

crore and 68 lakhs which is 2.2 per cent of the population of the country.  So far 

there  was  a  provision  of  3  per  cent  reservation  for  disabled  persons.    We  have 

increased it to four per cent.  I think it would be a pragmatic limit.  We have made 

such  provisions  in  the  Bill  that  no  disabled  person  would  be  deprived  of  the 

benefits of the welfare schemes being operated by the Government of India or the 

State Governments.  Besides the point of setting up a Commission was also made.  

I  would like to state that the  Commissions  are  meant  to play  advisory  role to  the 

Governments  and  it  is  always  upto  the  government  to  accept  or  reject  the 

recommendations.    Therefore,  we  have  decided  to  provide  this  facility  at  the 

commissionerate  level.    We  have  also  made  provision  to  setup  the  Advisory 

Boards at the Central and State levels.  Several hon. Members have suggested that 

body at the district level should also be formed.  The intention of the Bill is very 

much  in  line  with  this  suggestion.    We  will  try  to  ensure  the  formation  of  such 

committees  while  we  frame  our  regulations 

in  consultations  with  state 

governments.    As  far  as  the  question  of  including  the  public  representatives  is 

concerned we have decided that there would be three MPs who find representation 

in it out of which two will be from the Lok Sabha and one Member will be from 

the Rajya Sabha.  As far as providing the representation to the MLAs is concerned 

we will try to include them in the state level boards when we coordinate with the 

state governments in this regard. In addition, there is an issue of raising the number 

of  doctors  under  the  NIOH  Act.    This  Bill  already  contains  provisions  in  this 

regard.  Presently, the disability certificate issued by one district is not recognized 

by the other and one issued by a particular state is not recognized in another.  We 

have decided to provide universal identity card at the All India level.  Besides, the 

issue of ALIMCO has also been raised.  ALIMCO was about to fall into losses but 

we  have  provided  approximately  275  crore  rupees  for  its  expansion.    Some 

suggestions for expanding the ambit of disability have also been made.  Presently, 

it  is  the  medical  experts  and  other  experts  related  to  the  field  of  disability  who 

decide the nature and quantum of disability.  We have provided under the Bill that 

a decision to include particular disabilities could be made without having to fulfill 

the requirement of getting Parliamentary nod and we are making rapid progress on 

this front.  I urge upon the House to pass the Bill. 

 

SHRI N.K. PREMACHANDRAN speaking on the Motion to pass the Bill 

said: It is a landmark legislation in the history of Parliament legislative mechanism 

in India.  I fully support the Bill and it will definitely comply with the provisions of 

the UN Convention.  I have only one suggestion.  At the time of implementation, 

some  monitoring mechanism should be there because almost all the provisions in 

the Bill are important.   

The discussion was concluded. 

The Bill was passed. 

 
 

 

