  The  Mental  Act  of  1987  was 

institution  based  and  the  focus  of  treatment  was  through  the  institutions  and 

regulatory methods.  In this Bill of 2016 which is in the process of becoming Act 

our focus has shifted from institutions and gone towards community whereby we 

have tried that the people may opt for the treatment while remaining as a part of 

community.    We  have  tried  to  make  the  Bill  patient  centric  and  in  the  process 

empowering  them  while  deviating  from  the  institution  based  form  of  treatment.  

We want to empower the patient in order to ensure that they get proper treatment 

while removing all the hurdles being faced by them during the treatment.  Through 

this Act the individual will get the power of giving advance directives in regard to 

as  to  how  his  treatment  should  proceed  under  a  particular  circumstance  which 

means  he  can decide  whether  it  should be  community  based or  institution based, 

what  facilities  to  chose  from  etc.  and  he  will  be  vested  with  the  legal  power  of 

giving  such  advance  directives.    This  is  a  very  progressive  provision  which  has 

been inserted in the Bill.  Similarly, the legal provisions for an individual to make 

nomination  have  also  been  made  in  the  Bill.    We  can  also  make  provision  for 

decriminalization  of  suicide  once  this  Bill  is  passed.    Earlier  we  used  to  give 

electro-convulsive  treatment  i.e.  ECT  to  the  patients.    Now,  ECT  cannot  be 

administered without the use of anesthesia.  ECT cannot be given to children and 

they  cannot  be  subject  to  psychosurgery.    There  is  a  need  for  getting  informed 

consent  for  psychosurgery.    We  have  tried  to  put  an  end  to  all  kinds  of  harsh  or 

inhuman treatment which was in vogue earlier.  We have also added certain penal 

provisions in the Bill so that action could be taken against the persons involved in 

illegal  activities.    One  of  the  suggestions  made  was  regarding  inclusion  of  role 

models.  We have taken very good initiatives in form of hiring brand ambassadors 

to cover a large number of our health programmes.  We will also try to make this 

programme  a  success  through  brand  ambassadors.    The  hon.  Members  have  also 

suggested to add the Self Help Groups.  We will certainly launch programme for 

the  sensitization  of  all  including  ASHA,  MNM  etc.    But  there  is  no  need  to 

mention  it  in  the  Bill  right  now.    As  far  as  inclusion  of  psychotherapist  is 

concerned we will go by the directions of the expert committee.  The Government 

would make every possible step to upgrade the institution like NIMHANS.  When 

this  Bill  is  made  an Act  all the  ensuing structures  will  be  thoroughly  funded  and 

arrangement of training will also be made.  The question was also raised as to why 

judiciary has been given representation in the District Board.  I would like to tell 

that  it  has  been  done  because  judiciary  is  required  for  adjudication  and 

implementation  of  the  legal  aspects.    The  legal-judicial  angle  is  required  to  be 

monitored  by  the  judiciary  in  case  of  any  punitive  action.    Earlier,  a  mentally  ill 

patient used to face sterilization which will no longer be the case because it was an 

inhuman  act.    Secondly,  now  the  onus  of  taking  care  about  their  health  and 

hygiene is on the institutions.  As far as mother and child subject is concerned, a 

provision for giving reason has been made in case of separating the child from the 

mother.   The  issue of  alcohol  and drugs  was  also  raised  that  they  should  also  be 

considered  as  a  part  of  mental  illness.    We  have  already  accepted  so  in  our 

definition.  The issue of trained manpower has also been raised and we are doing 

our  workout  for  that.    We  are  planning  in  way  where  we  are  going  to  involve 

ASHAs  and  ANMs.    Through  various  measures  we  are  trying  to  strengthen  our 

mental health infrastructure.   

The Bill, as amended, was passed. 

 

 
