  The  main  issue  is  the 

quality of education and bringing qualitative improvement in education is of prime 

importance.    It  should  be  done  in  a  manner  as  if  we  are  celebrating  virtues  and 

qualities all the time.  We have taken four initiatives to achieve this purpose.  The 

first initiative is the establishment of Higher Education Finance Agency.  We have 

provided a Rs. 250 crore in the budget to support this initiative.  A total amount of 

Rs.  2000  crore  would  be  provided  as  budgetary  support.    During  the  next  three 

years  we  propose  to  provide  Rs.  20,000  crore  for  bringing  improvement  in  the 

quality  of  education.    One  of  the  salient  features  of  this  scheme  is  that  we  are 

going to lay stress on the research infrastructure.  The second initiative is GYAN 

under which the renowned teachers from abroad come to the country and complete 

a three week long course.  Exchange of academicians also helps in improving our 

ranking  all  over  the  world.    The  third  initiative  involves  the  scheme  for  higher 

research.    Till  very  recently  the  research  institutes  and  industries  were  divorced.  

We  have  tried  to  bring  them  together.    The  industry  has  been  giving  monetary 

support.    This  is  a  new  initiative  whereby  we  are  bringing  industries  and 

academicians on a common platform.  A country can only make progress when its 

research  faculty  is  strong  and  for  this  purpose  there  is  a  need  for  conducting 

research in every field.  There is also the problem of brain drain.  We have started 

a new scheme under which we could be able to retain the best talents in our own 

country.  The best 500 students from the excellent institutions would be provided a 

PM's  scholarship  of  Rs.  75,000  per  month  which  would  help  them  stay  in  the 

country.    We  have  taken  a  new  initiative  in  the  form  of  Global  Research 

Interactive Network.  I am sure that this new initiative will yield good results.  We 

are bringing in wholesome reforms as per the report of AICT.    An hon. Member 

also  talked  about  capacity  building.    The  institutions  like  IITs  will  have  to 

enthusiastically  take  part  in  the  initiatives  for  capacity  building.    We  also  talk  a 

great  deal  about  the  global  rankings  and  I  am  sorry  to  admit  that  these  stand 

nowhere in global rankings but it is also true that we have studied hard in terms of 

improving our global rankings.  The perception plays an important role in matter 

of global ranking.  We have a three crore strong NRI and Indian diaspora.  We will 

try hard to ensure that their perception about us reflects well.  We will also try to 

improve the quality of each institute.  The improvement in quality will be the main 

focus  of  all these  educational  reforms.   The  world  class  institutes  do not  become 

world  class  merely  by  calling  them  so.    Therefore,  we  have  tried  to  create  the 

institutes  of  national  eminence  to  be  created  10  each  in  public  sector  as  well  as 

private sector and this effort will culminate in creation of the world class institutes.  

We  are  asking  for  a  road  map  of  20-25  years  for  this  purpose.    Another  issue 

regarding the vacancies in places of higher education was raised.  This is true that 

a large number of vacancies are there in various universities.  We have started a 24 

by 7 process for filling these vacancies whereby we are going to undertake rolling 

advertisements  for  that  purpose.    There  is  another  aspect  to  it.    Hundreds  of 

vacancies  belonging  to  the  SC/ST  have  not  been  filled  in  major  institutes.    The 

vacancies of physically handicapped for which reservation has been provided have 

also  not  been  filled.    The  Government  is  trying  to  fill  these  vacancies.    The 

important  issue  of  suicide  was  also  raised.    The  death  of  any  students  due  to 

suicide  is  really  unfortunate  and  it  is  in  this  regard  that  we  have  taken  six  more 

initiatives  apart  from  the  report  of  the  concerned  committee  constituted  in  this 

regard.   We have been advocating for strengthening the induction course.  It is in 

pursuance  of  this  objective  I  have  written  to  the  universities  to  start  this  once 

again.    We  are  also  spending  money  in  order  to  improve  the  quality  of  public 

institutions.  To ensure the optimum utilisation of funds for bringing in qualitative 

improvement  we  have  taken  four  steps.    The  first  step  is  to  make  the  education 

based on the learning outcomes.  There was a mention of learning outcome in the 

Right to Education but it was left undefined for 10 years.  We have redefined it in 

this  very  month.    The  second  thing  is  that  we  are  going  to  bring  in  complete 

reforms  in  teachers  education.    The  fourth  step  we  have  taken  is  that  we  have 

decided to put an end to the no detention policy in regard to the students from class 

1 to class 8.  A legislation in this regard will be brought soon.  In Bihar, we have 

given  a  number  of  institutes.    Through  you  I  would  like  to  say  to  the  hon. 

Members that we have given Central University, Bodh Gaya, Central University, 

Motihari,  IIT  Patna,  NIT  Patna,  IIM  Bodh  Gaya.    The  issue  of  land  for  these 

institutes  is  with  you.    Please  give  land  early.    It  was  asked  whether  NITs  are 

ranked or not, these are ranked.  This is the second year of National Institutional 

Framework.  Provision for two-third waiver of fees for students in the NITs have 

been  made  for  those  whose  family  income  is  less  than  five  lakh.    SC  and  ST 

students are not required to pay fee.  All the members have supported the Bill for 

which I am thankful to them and I request to pass the Bill. 

The Bill, as amended, was passed. 

 

