  

The policy of our Hon. Prime Minister is to provide Good education i.e. education 

accessibility,  quality,  affordability  and  accountability  -  all  four.    And  to  achieve 

this national institutes are highly needed.   They are quality educational institutes.  

They are regarded as the best.  Not only that, it is affordable also.  Today, what we 

are introducing is an amendment to the National Institutes of Technology, Science 

Education  and  Research  Act,  2007  in  which  20  institutes  were  recognized  as 

National  Institutes  of  Technology,  Science  Education  and  Research.    All  these 

three things are important things - technology, science education and research.  We 

must  also  promote  research.    India  lacks  in  innovation.    It  is  because  we  do  not 

allow  inquisitiveness  from  childhood.    So,  innovation  is  the  product  of  research. 

Therefore,  the  basic  sciences  and  basic  research  has  to  be  the  thrust  of  higher 

education.  We  must  promote  innovation.    That  is  a  major  task  of, and  challenge 

before, our higher education system. Therefore, these national institutes are really 

important.    An  assurance  was  given  to  the  newly  carved  out  State  of  Andhra 

Pradesh because an NIT was already there in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, which 

is  now  a  part  of  Telangana.    The  new  State  of  Andhra  Pradesh  also  requires  an 

NIT.  That was our promise.  We are fulfilling it through this Bill.  In a way, this 

NIT  is  already  operational,  but  it  is  working  in  the  campus  of  Sri  Vasavi 

Engineering  College  in  Tadapalligudem  in  West  Godavari  District  of  Andhra 

Pradesh.    We  will  have  a  separate  campus  for  it  where  140  acres  of  land  has 

already been handed over by the Andhra Pradesh State Government and the DPR is 

in  finalization  stage.    We  have  already  budgeted  Rs.40  crore.    Already,  we  have 

released  Rs.10  crore.    Let  me  assure  at  this  point  of  time  that  there  will  be  no 

dearth of funds for this programme because this is a very prestigious programme.   

 

