 I express my gratitude that you have given me an 

opportunity  to  express  my  views  on  Finance  Bill.    When  this  government  came 

into  power,  the  country  was  facing  adverse  situation,  the  economy  was  in 

doledrums,  growth  rate  was  constantly  declining  and  there  was  an  atmosphere  of 

mistrust.    But  the  manner  in  which  this  government  has  succeeded  in  putting  in 

place good governance and a welfare government in this county by giving impetus 

to the growth rate of our country during the last three years, it has become an ideal 

government  for  all  the  countries  across  the  world.    In  2014,  adverse  financial 

situation was prevailing in the country.  Fiscal deficit was 8.9 per cent of the GDP 

and  revenue  deficit  was  2.8  per  cent.  The  rate  of  inflation  was  11.2  per  cent.  

During  the  last  three  years  this  government  has  succeeded  in  increasing  the 

country's  growth  rate  to  8.5  per  cent  from  8  per  cent.      Our  government  is 

committed  towards  welfare  of  the  poor  of  this  country  and  there  will  be  no 

discrimination based on caste, faith and religion and it will work with a complete 

dedication  towards  the  welfare  of  the  common  people.    Government's  motive  is 

exhibited by the Jan Dhan Yojana under which 25 crore accounts have been open 

for  the  poor  people  of  this  country.    This  government  has  launched  various 

schemes  like  Digital  India,  Start  up  India.    Stand  up  India  and  similarly  Pradhan 

Mantri Mudra Bank Yojana have been launched for the youth of this country self-

reliant.  Besides, dedicated Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana has been launched for 

the  women  of  this  country.      Again,  eastern  part  of  our  country  was  always  left 

behind  and  has  been  neglected.    Since  1998  I  have  been  representing  the  eastern 

part of the Uttar Pradesh and have been raising the issues with regard to it.  Since 

last 26 years, fertilizer unit in Gorakhpur has been facing closure.  Now, I would 

like  to  thank  this  government  that  with  the  initiative  taken  by  this  government, 

work has been started in that fertilizer unit and by 2019, fertilizer units are likely to 

be  set  up  in  Gorakhpur,  Barauni  and  Sindri  and  production  of  fertilizer  is  also 

likely  to  be  started  by  then.    Similarly,  various  districts  of  Uttar  Pradesh  wer 

affected withe encephalitis which caused death of many innocent children and 90 

per  cent  of  the  children  died  from  encephalitis  were  from  dalit  and  minority 

community.    Now  this  government  has  proposed  for  setting  up  of  AIIMS  in 

Gorakhpur  and  work  is  being  started  on  it.    The  manner  in  which  this  country  is 

marching  ahead  I  feel  that  it  will  play  an  important  role  in  establishing  India  as 

global superpower.  I  am very grateful that in this august House, since 1988 until 

now  I  have  been  given  opportunity  to  learn  and  acquaint  myself  with  the 

Parliamentary  System.  The  mandate  given  by  the  people  of  Uttar  Pradesh  in  the 

recent  election  is  a  slap  on  the  face  of    those  who  have  always  been  trying  to 

impede the development and welfare schemes.  The new government will create a 

new infrastructure  for  the development on  the lines of  'Sabka Saath  Sabka  Vikas' 

under the guidance of our hon. Leader and Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiji.  

We  all  are  committed  towards  working  for  the  development  of  all  the  people  of 

Uttar  Pradesh  and  for  the  development  of  all  the  areas  of  Uttar  Pradesh  cutting 

across  the  caste  and  class  lines.    We  can  vehemently  say  that  we  will  succeed  in 

creating such a situation in Uttar Pradesh where neither a businessman nor a doctor 

will be kidnapped and no one will allowed to  create chaos.  In fact, I have learnt 

from  the  Parliament  about  what  constitute  comportment.    I  was  a  little  bit 

apprehensive of how I will be dealt with when I was elected for the first time to the 

Parliament.    But,  no  sooner  did  I  enter  the  Parliament  Complex  than  each  and 

every  employee  of  Parliament  behaved  very  nicely  with  me.    That  was  very 

commendable.    Uttar  Pradesh  will  be  the  state  of  the  dream  of  our  hon.  Prime 

Minister.  Uttar Pradesh will be free of corruption, riots and hooliganism in future.  

We will develop Uttar Pradesh as model of development wherefrom the youth will 

not have to migrate. The mothers and sisters of Uttar Pradesh will not have to go 

somewhere else for protection.  At last, I would like to invite all of you to come to 

Uttar Pradesh. 

  

