  If  a person is  declared  as  a  willful 

defaulter,  then  certainly  there  are  prosecutions  in  those  cases.    NPA  is  slightly 

different.  An asset is performing as long as it is servicing the bank.  The moment it 

stops  servicing  the  banks,  it  becomes  non-performing.    There  could  be  several 

reasons.   One  reason  could  be  somebody  has siphoned off  money  or  diverted  the 

money  which  is  a  criminal  offence.    There  may  be  other  cases  where  loans  have 

been wrongly given.  But then there can be a third category also where loans were 

rightly given, they were given to good units and for some reason the business cycle 

has taken an adverse turn and that particular industry gets adversely affected.  We 

paralyse the entire sector itself and result in losing thousands and lakhs of jobs as 

far as that sector is concerned?  Obviously, the State cannot do it.  The banks do 

not want to do it.  So, all efforts are then made in order to ensure that these units 

continue  to  function  because  then  workmen  will  get  jobs,  taxes  will  be  paid, 

interest of the country.  The largest loans today really in four to  five sectors.  The 

Steel sector over the last few years has been facing a stress.  The reason was low 

global  demand  because  of  the  global  slowdown. 

  After  steel  come  the 

infrastructure  projects.    This  was  another  sector  where  large  debts  were  pending, 

even  still  they  are  pending.    The  third  important  sector  was  power.    So,  the  real 

answer is, as far as the big loans are concerned, the economic cycle itself will have 

to take care of a large number of them.  At the same time, people are not able to 

service  it.    The  banks  are  today  putting  a  lot  of  pressure  on  them.    The  third 

methodology  is,  banks  must  also  be  empowered  to  take  effective  legal  action 

against the defaulters.  These two principals laws, securitisation and DRT are also 

steps in that direction.  As far as DRT law is concerned, we have said not more two 

adjournments.    The  whole  system  is  now  intended  to  become  electronic.    The 

second  part  of  the  amendment  is  with  regard  to  the  SARFAESI  law  wherein  the 

bank  is  empowered  to  take  over  the  asset.    So,  the  security  can  at  least  be 

protected.  The security can be given to the Asset Reconstruction Company.  The 

idea is that the unit must go on and it must economically become more liquid and 

the jobs are not lost in the whole process.  Farmers' agricultural  land is exempted 

from  securitisation  under  Section 31  (i) of  the  Act.   Loans less  than Rs. 20 lakhs 

are  settled  on  a  large  scale  by  Lok  Adalat.    Central  Registry  was  established  on 

31st March, 2011.  It is now functional.  Unlisted debentures cannot come with the 

purview  of  the  SARFAESI  Act  because  they  are  not  regulated  by  SEBI.    If  the 

performance  of  a  ARC  is  not  satisfactory,  it  is  regulated  by  RBI  itself.    The 

leasehold  rights  of  the  lands  will  remain  with  the  person  who  takes  it  over.    The 

land cannot revert back to the State.  Definition of the word 'borrower' has already 

been extended to the NBFCs.  

The Bill was passed. 

