  I  feel  happy  that  all 

the  members  have  supported  the  Admiralty  (Jurisdiction  and  Settlement  of 

Maritime  Claims)  Bill,  2016.    While  formulating  the  manual  with  regard  to  the 

Bill, the views and suggestions of the hon. Members will be included.  The purpose 

of  introducing  this  Bill  is  to  ensure  that  the  claims,  compensation  under  the 

admiralty jurisdiction do not remain uncovered.  Besides, the objective is to ensure 

that the confusion and the constraint in taking action under the old law is removed 

and  stakeholders  get  justice  in  terms  of  the  maritime  claims.    This  has  been 

mention  here  that  these  claims  were  filed  hitherto  only  in  three  High  Courts  and 

people  were  compelled to approach these  courts only.   As  such, these three  High 

Courts  had  a  lot  of  work  pressure.    Now,  to  reduce  the  load  with  respect  to  the 

pending claims in these three High Courts, cases could be shifted to the respective 

High  Court  of  the  concerned  coastal  states.    The  law  has  been  comprehensively 

amended to suit the changed circumstances.  This will ensure the right to justice to 

the  people  and  those  working  in  the  shipping  sector.    The  number  of  claims  is 

likely to come down with the passage of claim Bill.  There are 12 major sea ports 

in the country as of now under the Sagar Mala Yojana.  However, the government 

is going to construct six more ports besides them.  Alongwith it, the government is 

working  to  upgrade  all  the  ports  that  we  have  now  and  ensure  their  proper 

utilization.  Besides, work is going to be undertaken in terms of port development 

across  the  country  with  an  expenditure  of  Rs.  8  lakh  crore  under  the  Sagar  Mala 

Yojana  meant  for  enhancing  port  connectivity,  railway  connectivity  and  National 

Highway connectivity.  The word 'Hindustan' has been used as a synonym as India 

has been called 'Hindustan' for centuries.  Proper attention has been paid to ensure 

that the sweepers working on wages basis do get their wages urgently.  The case of 

any personal loss has been given second priority. We have accorded third priority 

to the Government liability so that people may get proper justice.  With reference 

to Maritime University, there is a training institute at Kankinara in Andhra Pradesh 

but  this  is  not  the  subject  matter  of  this  Bill.    All  the  suggestions  given  by  hon. 

Members will be incorporated in the rules to be made under this Bill.  I hope that 

the  Admiralty  (Jurisdiction  and  Settlement  of  Maritime  Claims),  2016  will  be 

passed unanimously.  

The Bill, as amended, was passed. 

 

