  Scheduled  Castes 

Order  came  into  effect  in  1950.    On  the  basis  of  social  background  of  the  castes 

and  the  situation,  certain  castes  were  declared  as  scheduled  castes.    The  Union 

Government  considers  the  proposals  of  State  Governments  for  inclusion  of  other 

castes  in  the  list  of  Scheduled  castes.    Then  the  proposal  is  forwarded  to  the 

Scheduled  Castes  Commission.    The  Bill  is  introduced  in  Lok  Sabha  only  after 

clearance  from  the  Commission.   The  Government  has constituted a  Commission 

in  relation  to  nomadic  castes.    Report  of  the  Commission  is  awaited.    The 

Government  will  certainly  come  up  with  a  Bill  to  include  these  castes  in  the 

appropriate list as and when the report is received.  The Union Government cannot 

direct  the  State  governments  to  send  the  proposals.    Proposals  for  setting  up 

residential  schools  should  also  come  either  from  the  State  Government  or  any 

NGO.  This year's budget has a provision for setting up Navodaya Vidyalayas in all 

the  62  districts  where  there  is  no  such  Vidyalaya.    There  is  no  idea  of  the 

Government  to  tamper  with  the    present  provisions  regarding  reservations.  

Issuance  of  caste  certificates  falls  in  the  jurisdiction  of  State  Governments.  

Proposals  of  some  state  governments  to  include  certain  castes  in  the  list  of 

scheduled castes have either been rejected by the Registrar General of India or by 

the  National  Commission  for  Scheduled  Castes.    Hence,  the  Union  Government 

cannot take any action on them.  We have taken meaningful steps to do justice to 

the people belonging to Scheduled Castes.  The scheduled castes and the scheduled 

Tribes  (Prevention  of  Atrocities)  Act  has  been  improved  and  made  stringent.   So 

far as the issue of respecting Baba Saheb Ambedkar is concerned, the Government 

has decided to develop the five places related to him as Panch Tirtha in his 125th 

anniversary  year.    The  Government  is  committed  to  bringing  the  people  of 

Scheduled Castes, OBC and the backward classes into the main stream.   

The Bill was passed. 

 

