  I  welcome  the  Footwear  Design  and 

Development  Institute  Bill,  2017.    I  am  very  glad  with  this  initiative  of  the 

Minister  to  give  authentication  to  such  an  institution  so  far  as  degrees  and 

diplomas are concerned.  The first keyword is the Bill is 'design'.  Presently, trend 

of leather interior furniture, fashion dresses and articles have increased.  The scope 

of footwear and leather designing is becoming popular all over the world.  On the 

health  sector,  besides  designing  for  orthopaedic  uses  in  different  shapes,  shoes 

prevents some contaminated disease.  The second key point is 'development' which 

means research and innovation of newer models, research and invention of newer 

alternatives  as  it  is  very  much  necessary  in  the  present  context  of  our  political 

situation.  Indian leather and allied industry has scope of growth in terms of local 

consumption as well as global export.  In export, footwear contributes about 47 per 

cent.  Footwear and leather industry plays a vital role in Indian economy.  Besides 

export,  this  industry  is  mostly  labour  intensive  and  it  has  huge  scope  for  youth 

employment.  This  is  an  industry  which  has  immense  scope  for  women 

empowerment.    I  do  not  know  how  much  will  the  establishment  of  this  Institute 

help  in  doing  that.    That  is  why  there  is  a  question  about  the  present  institution 

whether it is an institution of national importance or not.  This Bill is very relevant 

in  this  context.    It  deals  with  the  establishment  of  an  institution  for  education, 

research and innovation as regards footwear and other leather products, Clause one 

is regarding title of the Bill. I wonder why it only has the name 'footwear'.  There 

are  other  allied subjects  also.   I  would like  to  know  whether instead  of  'footwear 

and other allied articles will be incorporated in the Title of the Bill.  We want to 

establish small factories or big factories.  How will  man power be given to them 

through this Bill? 

The discussion was not concluded. 

 

