  First  of  all,  on  behalf  of  the 

people  of  Telangana,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Shri  Yogi  Aditya  Nath  for 

becoming  the  Chief  Minister  of  Uttar  Pradesh.  The  Union  Government  has  not 

given much to our state Telangana.  Of course advancing the budget by one month 

is a significant change enabling states to start their work right from the first week 

of  April.    I  would  like  to  appreciate  the  Budget  where  generous  increase  can  be 

seen,  particularly,  the  higher  education  sector  has  seen  an  increase  of    12.2  per 

cent.  It has been increased from Rs. 29,703 crore to Rs.33,300 crore.  I would like 

to  mention  the  National  Nutrition  Mission  for  which  budgetary  provision  of  Rs. 

175  crore  has  been  increased  to  Rs.1,500  crore.    The  Maternity  Benefits 

Programme  which only  used  to  get  Rs.634  core now  gets  Rs.2,700  crore.   Under 

Pradhan  Mantri  Grameen  Awas  Yojana,  the  Central  Government  decided  that  it 

will  build  3.6  million  houses  in  this  year  whereas  the  State  Governments  have 

stated  that  they  are  going  to  build  only  2.41  million  houses  this  year.    The 

Government  will  have  to  think  once  again  as  to  how  it  is  going  to  meet  this 

difference of the target.  Moreover, there has been  just Rs.300 crore increase in the 

allocation of the Mid-Day meal Scheme.  I hope it will be revised soon.  I would 

like  to  demand  from  the  Government  that  the  pension  amount  of  Rs.200  for  the 

widows  should  be  increased  to  Rs.500  because  there  are  a  number  of  states  like 

Telangana who have to pay Rs.1000 as pension to widows and the old age persons 

and  Rs.1500  to  the  differently  abled  persons.    According  to  the  information 

available on the website of the Reserve Bank of India the overall credit for priority 

sector lending has fallen by 10.6 per cent as compared to the last year.   If priority 

sector  lending  is  not  increased  we  will  not  be  able  to  create  employment.    The 

minimum  target  should  be  to  give  away  Rs.  12  lakh  crore  to  farmers  as  loans 

instead  of  Rs.10  lakh  crore.    The  Finance  Minister  wants  to  take  India  from 

informal  economy  to  a  formal  economy  where  he  would  like  to  encourage  more 

and  more  digital  transactions.    But  unless  and  until  safety  is  there  and  the 

transaction becomes more viable and cheaper, I do not believe people will go for 

digital transaction.  So, I request the hon. Finance Minister to look into this issue.  I 

would like to make a point about my State.  The installment of Rs.400 crore, which 

has been pending, should be released.  The pending amount of Rs.450 crore for our 

backward  districts  should  also  be  released.    Moreover,  the  status  of  National 

Project should be accorded to the Koleshwaram Project of our State.   

 

