  I  would  like  to  thank  the 

Minister for his eloquent introduction of this Bill.  I do have some concerns.  The 

larger  point  is  that  we  have  in  our  country,  a  potential  demographic  dividend 

because of our youthful population, but it is very clear that if we do not revitalize 

our  education  sector,  particularly  higher  education  sector,  this  demographic 

dividend potentially will transform into a demographic disaster.  We have seen the 

consequences  of  that  in  our  tribal  areas  with  the  Maoist  movement,  the  naxalite 

movement.    The  problem  lies  at  heart  in  this  Government's  inability  or 

unwillingness  to  provide  the  necessary  resources  required  to  be  able  to  drive  our 

higher education sector towards the demographic dividend.  What have we seen in 

the share of budgetary outlay towards education?  In the most recent Budget, it was 

stagnant at only 3.7 per cent and only a meager 1.5 per cent has been allocated to 

higher  education.    Only  three  of  our  IIMs  feature  in  the  list  of  Top-100 

Management  Schools  in  the  world  as  per  2017  Financial  Times'  ranking.    When 

you  have  an  institution  of  national  importance,  it  must  also  be  an  institution  of 

budgetary  importance.    The  Government  launched  the  Pandit  Madan  Mohan 

Malaviya National Mission on Teachers and Training.  There is no progress in the 

establishment  of  Centres  in  the  Universities,  and  a  tiny  fraction  of  the  fund  has 

been utilized since 2014.  26 per cent of faculty posts in the IIMs and 35 per cent 

of  faculty  in  the  IITs  are  lying  vacant.    For  quality,  we  need  resources;  we  need 

money; we need facilities; and we need faculty.  The Government has also delayed 

the implementation of the Higher Education Financing Agency.  The story of our 

country's  economic  resurgence  would  be  incomplete  without  acknowledging  the 

critical  role  collectively  played  by  the  IIMs.    These  have  realized  the  hopes  and 

vision of the man who established the IIMs - Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru.  The Bill is 

clearly  an  improvement  on  the  earlier  draft  that  was  circulated  by  the  Minister's 

predecessor.    I  congratulate  the  Government  for  coming  up  with  a  very  far-

reaching  Bill.    I  think,  it  is  really  a  remarkable  moment  when  a  Government 

Minister in our system actually surrenders power.  I want to congratulate the hon. 

Minister that he has taken this step.  I hope he will follow it in other institutions.  

One particular feature, I want to congratulate the Minister for is that he has insisted 

that the Board shall comprise three women members.  The Coordination Forum is 

an interesting initiative.  The Bill is completely silent on the issue of reservation in 

teaching  staff  particularly.    Earlier,  there  was  a  specific  provision.    What  is 

particularly  worrying  is  that  of  the  233  faculty  members  in  the  six  IIMs  that  we 

have  information  for,  only  two  belong  to  the  Scheduled  Caste  Community  and 

none from the Scheduled Tribe Community.  I propose that the Government in its 

next step should have a more ambitious Management Education Bill so that other 

management  institutions  can  benefit  from  these  reforms,  create  a  National 

Management University.  Lack of control of the Government over the quantum of 

fees  may  lead  to disadvantages for the  marginalized  sections  in  our society.   The 

need  of  the  nation  could  not  be  properly  met  if  students  from  poorer  families 

would have to undertake the burden of very heavy loans just to be able to study in 

a  government  institution.    Another  concern  is  lack  of  full-time  Directors  in  the 

IIMs.    As  these  institutes  have  done  a  great  deal  for  India,  I  hope  that  the 

Government  will  see  this  Bill  as  an  opportunity  to  bolster  the  potential  of  these 

institutes.   

 

