 Five subsidiary banks 

had been merged formally with the on 1st April, 2017.  As a result of this merger, 

the  SBI  has  become  one  of  the  50  major  banks  of  the  world.    It  is  ranked  45th 

among the major banks of the world.  The total number of its customers has gone 

up to 37 crore.  The number of its employees has also gone up from 2 lakhs to 2 

lakhs  72  thousand.    I  have  submitted  this  point  here  as  many  of  our  colleagues 

have  expressed  their  apprehensions  in  this  regard.    All  these  apprehensions  will 

turn out to be baseless in the times to come.  We will have the benefit through this 

merger that the new bank will have more capital base and will be able to provide 

more amount of loan.  It will also improve the efficiency and the facilities provided 

to  the  customer  by  the  Bank.    It  will  bring  down  the  volume  of  inter-banking 

transaction  saving  the  time  required  for  clearing.    Now,  the  doors  of  the  Banks 

have  opened  up  for  the  common  man  in  real sense of  the term  and  more  than 29 

crore  people  have  opened  their  accounts  in  Banks  so  far.    Out  of  these,  1/4th 

accounts  have  been  opened  with  zero  balance.    This  is  a  record  in  itself  as  well.  

During  the  year  2009-10,  the  amount  of  loan  provided  to  the  agricultural  sector 

was to the tune of Rs.3 lakh 50 thousand crore which has gone up to Rs.10 lakh 65 

thousand crore during the year 2016-17.  We have been paying attention towards 

this goal on constant basis taking care of the common man.  So far as the question 

of minimum balance is concerned, as I said just now, 1/4th out of the 29 thousand 

accounts have been opened with zero balance.  It is our desire that every person of 

the  country  must  have  access  to  the  banks.    We  transformed  the  post  office  into 

bank.    As  far  as  the  question  of  closing  down  the  branches  of  the  State  Bank  of 

Travancore is concerned,   the name of this bank has definitely changed, but none 

of its branches will be closed down.   If the Members do feel the need to set up a 

bank branch  at  any  place  and  they  send it  in  writing, it  will  be    considered.   The 

RRBs are working as per their target in rural areas.  Our 75 per cent lending is for 

the priority sector in rural areas.  In fact, now this Bank will pose a challenge to the 

private  banks  as  well  and  the  SBI  will  function  in  a  better  way  in  the  times  to 

come.  Some apprehensions have been expressed by our colleagues.  These will be 

addressed, however, the merger effected has been in view of larger interest. 

The Bill was passed. 

