 The amendment to the present Bill is 

with  the  purpose  to  amend  the  National  Institutes  of  Technology,  Science 

Education  and  Research  Act,  2007  so  as  to  commence  a  National  Institute  of 

Technology  in  Andhra  Pradesh.  We  are  thankful  to  the  Government  for  having 

commenced  an  IIT  in  the  State  of  Kerala.  It  was  a  long-pending  dream  of  the 

people  of  Kerala  to  have  an  IIT  in  the  State.  The  IITs  were  created  by  way  of  a 

status  passed  by  Parliament.  This  means  that  it  is  a  very  important  institution  of 

national importance. The significance of an IIT or an NIT is that these are centres 

of  excellence.  I  think,  there  are  three  aims  with  which  these  highly  esteemed 

institutions were established. The first aim was to bring out brilliant professionals 

in our country. The second aim was to improve the quality of higher education in 

the country. The third aim is very important, but unfortunately, it is being ignored 

now-a-days. It was to ensure that poor and common people get an opportunity to 

have  quality  education  in  these  centres  of  excellence.  We  are  not  even  able  to 

become  one  among  the  first  200  colleges  of  international  standard  in  the  world. 

That  is  the  situation  even  after  55  years  of  IITs  and  ten  years  of  NITs.  On  this 

issue, we should rise above politics and join together to have a concerted effort to 

improve  the  quality  of  higher  education  in  our  country.  As  regard  faculty,  the 

quality  of  education  is  directly  related  to  the  faculty.  If  the  faculty  is  not  well-

qualified  and  if  there  is  no  sufficient  facility  to  discharge  higher  education,  then 

there is no meaning in starting higher educational institutions like NIT and IIT. So, 

the  faculty  qualification  should  be  strict;  NET  qualification  should  be  followed; 

and it should never be diluted. What  is the opinion of the Government regarding 

the  T.  S.  R.  Subramanian  Committee  Report?  I  am  asking  the  because  quality  of 

education  is  the  biggest  challenge  that  the  country  is  facing  in  this  era.  Higher 

education  is  the  best  business  which  is  available  in  our  country.  These  private 

unaided educational institution are growing like anything. That will be resulting in 

denial  of  education  to  the  poor  people  of  our  country.  Comparing  it  with  the  fee 

structure  which  is  prevailing,  even  after  this  25  per  cent  reservation, poor  people 

are  not  able  to  go  there  because  the  system  is  entirely  different.  The  private 

unaided educational system is different. Considering the recent fee hike in IITs, it 

is also adversely affecting the common man. This is against the concept of the IITs 

and the National Institutes of Technology. The premier educational institutions in 

the country will also be reserved or will also be available only for the rich class of 

society.  I  would  urge  the  Government  to  review  the  unreasonable  and  unjust  fee 

hike, which was enhanced recently.  

 

THE  MINISTER  OF  HUMAN  RESOURCE  DEVELOPMENT  (SHRI 

