  I  rise  to  speak  in  favour  of  the 

Indian Institutes of Information Technology (Public-Private Partnership) Bill, 2017.  I 

would  like  to  congratulate  the  hon.  Minister  of  Human  Resource  Development  for 

bringing such a visionary and historical Bill.  This Bill will certainly usher in a new 

era of education, research and expansion in the sector of Information Technology in 

the country.  This Bill is also significant for us as it will facilitate the emergence of 

such  a  far-reaching,  effective  and  strong  mechanism  of  the  information  technology 

education in the country which will cater to not only our needs but will also prove our 

strategic  excellence  in  the  field  of  information  technology  all  over  the  world.    The 

issues  like  the  definition  of  public  private  partnership,  the  manner  of  its 

establishment, the  ways  of  coordination  among  the  center, states  and  industries, the 

manner  of  mooting  the  proposal  by  the  Union  Government  and  the  manner  of 

preparing  MoU  for  it  and  the  role  of  industry  partners  etc.  have  been  lucidly 

explained  in  different  clauses  of  this  Bill.    The  work  has  also  been  done  for  the 

mobilization of funds for these institutes.  The information technology has certainly 

played  pivotal  role  in  achieving  remarkable  economic  progress  as  the  information 

technology contributes about 10 percent of our GDP.  According to NASSCOM this 

sector  is  going  to  create  30  lakh  new  employment  opportunities  by  the  year  2025.  

This  Bill  will  to  be  a  revolutionary  step  for  the  world  and  will  usher  in  a  new  era.  

This Bill seeks to provide legitimacy to their degrees conferred upon their students as 

well  as  to  provide  legal  status  to  these  15  institutes  of  PPP  mode.    These  institutes 

will  automatically  get  their  autonomy  having  been  declared  as  institutes  of  national 

importance.    This  will  also  facilitate  the  creation  of  conducive  atmosphere  for 

research  on  their  education.    This  Bill  also  seeks  to  establish  better  coordination 

through autonomy and accountability and to set up the excellent academic institutes 

of  information  technology.    How  to  prepare  our  students,  our  faculties  and  our 

scientists on global standards is also the fundamental objective of this Bill.  2.5 lakh 

villages have been envisaged to be brought under the ambit of Digital India and this 

also stands reinforced through this Bill.  This Bill specially provides for formulation 

of a strategy to be adopted by these 15 institutes to mobilize their funds and execute 

the  same  to  become  an  autonomous  body.    This  will  turn  out  to  be  crucial  in  the 

employment  creation  also.    I  would  like  to  conclude  with  this  request  that  an  IIIT 

should be set up in Uttarakhand also.  

 

