  I  would  like  to  thank  all 

the hon. Members for participating in this debate.  A major issue has emerged as to 

how to improve the quality of education.  I am prepared to have a discussion on the 

issue  of  improving  the  quality  of  education  in  the  House  and  also  outside  if  the 

members  desires  so  and  we  will  decide  about  the  quality  dialogue.    It  has  other 

dimension also.  With new technology, online education is being imparted but the 

mute  question  is  as  to  how  much  useful  it  is  and  whether  contact  to  contact  is 

needed or not.  This is the mix of both.  One hon. Member said that there is only 

one B.Ed. college in his district and it cannot train all the teachers.  This extension 

had to be given only for such reasons.  Hon. Members know that all the courses of 

Edex  are  useful  and  lakhs  of  students  are  pursuing  these  courses  and  are  also 

obtaining certificates.  Best teachers of the country would give their lectures there.  

In  such  courses  material  will  be  provided,  tutorials  would  also  be  given  and 

interaction would also take place.  The students could ask the questions through an 

App.    The  teachers  would  visit  the  centres  weekly  to  answer  the  queries  of  the 

students.    The  work  which  was  done  by  going  to  the  study  centres  will  be  done 

online.  These courses would be not only online but will be available on 32 DTH 

channels in eight languages and on 8 channels.  These will be repeated 3-4 times in 

a day.  There will be tracking as it is now technically feasible as access to server 

will be with the government.  Every  year, a twelve days camp will be organized.  

Several other issues have been raised from out of school children to mid-day meal.  

The  Bill  on  detention  is  also  slated  to  be  introduced.    For  5th  to  8th  standard, 

examination  will  be  held  in  March.    If  the  student  fails  then  he  or  she  will  get 

another chance in May and he or she still fails then he or she will be detained in the 

same class and a new Bill will be introduced to this effect very soon and it will be 

then  discussed.    Today  teachers  are  being  given  the  last  chance  and  they  have  to 

acquire  the  minimum  essential  qualification  in  two  years.    This  course  will  be 

available  online  as  well  as  offline.    Manipur  has  done  good  work  about  the 

attendance  of  teacher.    Rajasthan  has  also  done  something  innovative  in  this 

regard.  The good work done in Manipur will be extended to other States also.  I 

would appeal to all the hon. Members that they should work towards the quality of 

education in their constituencies.   

The Bill was passed. 

