 I  congratulate the  Government  on 

taking  various  steps  and  making  various  reforms  to  reduce  the  agony  of  the 

common  man.  Coming  to  small  and  medium  enterprises,  five  per  cent  point 

reduction  in  the  tax  rate  and  companies  with  annual  turnover  up  to  Rs.  50  crore 

will benefit small and medium enterprises.  An additional surcharge of 10 per cent, 

it  is  a  very  welcoming  step.    With  regard  to  personal  income  tax,  it  is  a  very 

welcoming step by the Government that tax has been reduced from 10 per cent to 

five per cent.  It is also a very good news for the startups that the existing provision 

of Section 80-IAC of the Income Tax Act is being amended.  Exemptions given for 

the income of Chief Minister's Relief Fund is also a very welcoming step.  Coming 

to  agriculture,  the  Budget  has  laid  special  emphasis  on  agriculture  sector.  

Government has made special efforts for additional income generation to farmers 

in  the  farm  of  dairy  farming.    Under  the  Pradhan  Mantri  Fsal  Bima  Yojana,  the 

Government has set a target to cover crop insurance up to 40 per cent in 2017-18 

and 50 per cent in 2018-19.  But still farmers across the country are suffering from 

multiple issues.  Maharashtra alone, 8000 suicides have taken place in the last two 

years.    Therefore,  we  must  take  immediate  steps  to  stop  our  farmers  from 

committing  suicide.    I  urge  the  Government  to  take  strict  measures  to  compel 

banks to achieve the target set in the Budget.  However, no deadline has been set to 

achieve this target.  Coming to demonetization and digital economy, I welcome the 

Government's  initiative  to  curb  the  cash  economy  and  encourage  the  digital 

economy.    It  is  not  enough  to  put  restrictions  on  cash  transactions  to  encourage 

digital  transactions.    The  Government  should  incentivize  the  digital  transaction.  

On  the  contrary,  people  are  being  charged  to  use  their  own  legitimate  money, 

which has already been accounted and taxed.  This is gross injustice to the ordinary 

tax  payer  of  this  country.    I  would  request  the  hon.  Finance  Minister,  to  put  in 

place a mechanism whereby the share of Urban Local Bodies is deposited directly 

in  the  kitties  so  that  they  would  not  have  to  be  dependent  on  the  State/Central 

Government and the financial autonomy is not compromised.   

 

