 It is a historical amendment and today is also a 

historical day when the friendship between India and Bangladesh is expected to be 

further  strengthened.  An  agreement  was  signed  between  Indira  Gandhi  ji    and 

Mujibur  Rahman  and  a  special  moment  came  in  this  friendship  in  the  year  2011 

when  Prime  Minister  Manmohan  Singh  alongwith  Sheikh  Hasina  Ji  inked  a 

historical agreement. There are three things in this Bill. One thing is enclave. The 

word enclave implies that the land of India or the land of Bangladesh, the land of 

one  country  is  localed  deep  inside  the  territory  of  other  country  and  the 

administration is unable to  provide any kind of facility to the people there. There 

are  51  enclaves  of  Bangladesh  located  inside  the  territory  of  India  and  111 

enclaves  of  India  are  located  inside  the  territory  of  Bangladesh.  There  is  adverse 

possession  in  respect  of  these  enclaves.  It  means  that  there  is  such  area  inside 

Indian  territory  near  international  boundary  which  is  under  the  possession  of 

Bangladesh  and  under  the  administration  of  that  country.  If  we  look  at  the  area 

then we find that India has 2,777 acres of such type of  land and Bangladesh has 

2,738 acres of that land. Bangladesh has taken adverse possession of 2738 acres of 

Indian  land  from  that  type  of  land.  We  have  got  possession  of    470  acres  of  that 

land.  Third  issue  is  related  to  un-demarcated  boundary.  There  is  a  stretch  of 

international boundary up to the length of six kilometer where the boundary is not 

demarcated.  This  stretch  falls  in  Tripura,  West  Bengal  and  Assam.  Its  benefit  is 

that our land has been returned to us. Hon'ble Minister will agree that Assam has 

been treated as a special case regarding adverse possession. But in this case Assam 

has  got  478  acres  of  land.  The  third  point  is  related  to  humanitarian  benefit.  The 

fourth  benefit  pertains  to  security.  We  shall  be  able  to  secure  our  boundaries. 

Therefore, Assam has got 714 acres of land after the demarcation of un-demarcated 

Laltitila  and  Dumabadi  boundary.  This  Bill  has  been  introduced  in  national 

interest.  If  atrocity  is  being  committed  against  any  person  in  our  neighbouring 

country  then  India  should  provide  protection  to  those  persons.  It  is  our 

responsibility  to  think  about  the  economy  of  our  own  country  but  in  addition  to 

that we have to provide leadership to entire South Asian region. It is in our interest 

if peace and stability prevail in all these countries.  

 

