  I  am  really  overwhelmed 

with  the  support  and  the  quality  of  discussion  we  had  on  these  two  Bills.    All  are 

endowed with wisdom but they should be provided opportunity.  When opportunity is 

given, their capability comes to the fore.  Therefore, it is duty of the society to provide 

equal  opportunity.    So,  those  four  points  have  become  five  points-  accessibility, 

quality,  affordability,  accountability  and  equality.    All  these  together  is  what  will 

make education.  Today, the Government incurs Rs.6 lakh expenditure per student per 

year.  But everyone is not affluent. Therefore, we have to have a graded fee structure.  

The maximum fee is Rs. Rs.2 lakh.  It is a complete fee waiver for Scheduled Tribes 

and Scheduled Castes. So, 23 per cent is covered in that.  The people who are earning 

below  Rs.1akh  and  physically  handicapped  who  are  talented,  they  are  also  having  a 

complete fee waiver.  Upto Rs.5 lakh income, they have to pay only Rs.60,000.  Upto 

Rs.9 lakh annual income, they will be provided interest free loan and interest free loan 

means repayment is paid over a period of ten years, so they will be given much more 

than  we  actually  charge.    So,  major  poor  section  is  completely  covered  through 

various schemes.  We are charging Rs.2 lakh from the affluent section of the society.  

Those who are capable to pay must pay the fees.  Again let me put emphasis on the 

infrastructure.    Infrastructure  is  not  just  roads,  buildings  or  staff  quarters.    That  is 

important.    But  more  important  is  research  infrastructure,  and  there  is  tremendous 

backlog.    Now  all  of  us  together  have  to  do  it.    We  have  thought  of  a  Higher 

Education Financial Agency, HEFA.  With budgeted Rs.1,000 crore commitment, 

we  will  apoint  one  partner  in  bank  and  somebody  else,  a  financial  institute,  to 

manage it.  It will also put in Rs.1,000 crore. With that Rs.2,000 crore basic core 

capital,  we  will  leverage  Rs.20,000  crore  for  improving  the  infrastructure 

throughout  the  IITs  and  NITs.    This  amount  of  Rs.20,000  crore  is  coming  in  the 

next three years.  So, on the infrastructure backlog, we have already asked all the 

IITs and NITs to give us the DPRs.  So, when we sanction the money, they should 

be  ready  with  their  DPRs  so  that  the  work  can  start  immediately.    Many  people 

talked about that before even coming to the IITs, the students have to spend lakhs 

of rupees on coaching.  But there also we are coming with a very innovative idea 

of IIT-Pal.  IIT-Pal is a free open course which is available online.  I want to make 

it  available  through  the  TV  also.    Those  interested  students  need  not  go  to  the 

coaching  centres  but  can  take  lessons,  materials,  homework,  tutorial,  trial 

examination  and  everything  here, everything  what  a  coaching centre  does. It  will 

be  much  better  and  it  is  done  by  the  best  of  the  professors  of  India.    That  is  the 

major initiative which come for all the students.  Everybody talked about research.  

We need more new research.  We call ourselves as IT superpower.  But we are not 

producing  hardware.    But  even  in  software,  we  have  not  come  out  with  New 

Google.    So,  there  are  many  things  even  in  software.    Though  India  youths  have 

made  significant  contribution  in  innovations  like  Google,  Face  book  and  Twitter 

etc.,  these  innovations  is  not  in  our  name.  The  number  of  total  research 

publications is 25,164.   Your young scientists have filed 757 patents and of them 

patents awarded are 137.  Our capacity is such that we can do ten times more.  We 

are providing at least from Rs.1 crore to Rs.5 crore for each research proposal as 

per requirement.  They need our talented youths not go to foreign countries, India 

will  provide  them  the  required  finance.    That  is  the  initiative  of  our  hon.  Prime 

Minister under Imprint India.  Everybody stressed on IIT-industry interaction.  The 

Uchchatar Avishakar Yojana was stated in 2015 and we are continuing to improve 

it further.  So, there are nearly 500  projects under Imprint India and 100 projects 

under  Uchchatar  Avishkar  Yojana  will  be  taken up, which  will  really  start  a new 

innings for research and innovation in India.  Under Start-Up, we have allowed the 

IIT  hostels  to  start  it  even  in  their  hostel  rooms.    So,  under  Start-Up,  we  are 

providing  facilities,  finance  and  escort  services.    We  have  started  an  initiative 

named  'Gyan'  i.e.  Global  Initiative  of  Academic  Network.    More  than  200 

professors from all over the world, best of the best teachers have come over here, 

conducted the course and have benefited thousands of students.  Then, SWAYAM 

is a big launch to happen.  Team comprising five each expert professors of all main 

courses  and  subjects  for  teaching  students  from  ninth  standard  to  post  graduate 

level  have  been  constituted.    It  will  give  a  new  dimension  to  education  as  Good 

Education  for  All  is  the  policy  of  this  Government  and  this  Government  is 

marching  ahead  with  this  goal  in  view.      Therefore,  under  National  Knowledge 

Network,  600  universities  and  institutions  of  national  importance  have  been 

connected  with  one  GBPS  connectivity  provided  there  is  a  platform  for 

collaborative  learning  and  access  to  high  speed  internet.    Apart  from  this,  all  the 

Central universities in the country are going to be connected through wi-fi network.  

Under  this,  all  the  class-rooms,  libraries,  laboratories,  hostels  and  places 

frequented  by  students,  even  canteen,  will  be  covered  by  wi-fi.    All  these 

experiments are increasing the quality of education.  One of the hon. Members has 

raised  an  important  issue,  like  "Interaction  with  Defence  and  Space  Research 

Organization".  This opportunity should be provided to the students.  I have noted 

down  suggestions  of  all  the  hon.  Members.    And,  we  will,  all  together,  take  a 

decision thereon as providing good education is the duty of all of us.  This is also a 

national agenda too and we will all carry it forward.  Finally, I am thankful to all 

the hon. Members for extending their support to this Bill. 

The Bill, as amended, was passed.  

 

