    Hon.  Members  have 

today  seriously  deliberated  upon  the  Bonus  Amendment  Bill,  2015.    They  have 

raised two very vital issues regarding this Bill.  One is about eligibility and other is 

about  calculation  limit.    In  the  year  2007,    the  eligibility  was  Rs.  10,000  and 

calculation  ceiling  was  Rs.  3,500.    I  would  like  to  inform  the  House  that  the 

eligibility of Rs. 10,000 has been increased to Rs. 21,000 and the calculation limit 

has  also  been  increased  from  Rs.  3500  to  Rs.  7,000.    This  Government  is  quite 

concerned  about  the  poor.    Their  minimum  wages  should  be  increased  and  they 

should  be  given  more  wage  security.    Wage  security,  job  security  and  social 

security are three vital issues.  My colleagues have extensively discussed the issue 

of  minimum  wages.    I  would  make  an  endeavour  to  evolve  a  consensus  on  this 

issue and would bring a National Minimum Wage Bill with statuary provisions to 

ensure minimum wages to the workers.  So far, the advisory was non-statutory in 

this regard.  I would say that instead of calling it minimum wages, we should call it 

fair wages.   The Second National Law Commission headed by the eminent trade 

union  leader,  Shri  Ravindra  Verma,    gave  recommendations  in  our  national 

interest.  In those recommendations, codification is also there.  We are going to do 

further codification.  All 44 Central labour laws will be converged into four labour 

codes.  The paramount theme of my Government's labour reforms is to safeguard 

the  interests  of  the  workers.    I  have  held  21  tripartite  committee  meetings  with 

labour  unions.    There  will  be  no  infringement  of  rights  of  workers.    All  these 

measures are in the favour of the workers.  In India, the unorganised workforce is 

very  high.    About  93  percent  of  the  workforce  is  unorganised.    In  terms  of 

numbers, it  is  approximately  40  crores.   To  implement  all  these  measures, it  will 

have a financial implication of Rs. 6,203 crore for the Government.  This historic 

decision  would  benefit  crores  of  workers.    Therefore,  all  of  you  should  pass  this 

legislation  with  unanimity.  I  have  taken  note  of  the  suggestions  of  the  hon. 

Members and I will definitely consider those suggestions. 

The Bill, as amended, was passed. 

 

 

