    Nearly 

37  hon'ble  Members  have  participated  in  the  discussion  on  this  Bill.    Many 

members have stated that children are asset of the country and thus responsibility 

of the safety and care of these children lies on everyone.  The objective of the Bill 

is that every child must go to school and no child below the age of 14 should be 

deprived  of  school  education.    The  propose  of  this  very  Act  is  that  it  should  be 

practically implemented. In the definition of 'family' we have included parents, as 

well  as  their  brothers  and  sisters.    In  the  other  part  of  the  Bill,  father's  sister  and 

brother  and  mother's  sister  and  brother  are  included  as  blood  relations.  We  have 

defined  the  family  keeping  in  mind  the  economic  conditions  of  the  country  and 

many other factors.  

 

In  case  of  artist,  it  is  provided  in  the  definition  that  the  safety,  security, 

working conditions, physical and mental progress of child should be taken care of.  

The Bill extends ban on child labour till the age of  14 in all sectors and adolescent 

children  i.e.  14  to  18  years,  are  prohibited  to  work  in  all  hazardous  processes.    I 

have reduced the list of the Schedule to the Bill.  I have not added the items in the 

list, but I have categorized them.   

 

Another  important  thing  is  that  some  Members  have  asked  for  more 

punishment.  You can see what is there in the existing Act and the proposed Act?  

As  per  the  previous  Act  for  the  first  time  offence  there  is  provision  of  a  fine  of 

Rs.10,000  and imprisonment  for  three  months  to  one  year.  We  have  increased it 

upto  a  minimum  fine  of  Rs.20,000  and  maximum  punishment    of  two  years,  to 

make  it  more  deterrent.  For  second  time  offence,  the  existing  provision  is  a 

minimum of six months and a maximum of two years imprisonment.  Now, I have 

proposed  for  a  minimum  one  year  and  a  maximum  of  three  years  imprisonment.  

Similar  provisions  have  been  made  for  the  first  and  second  time  offences  in  the 

case of adolescents. 

 

We have made the Child Labour Rehabilitation Fund mandatory.  Earlier the 

amount of fine was given to the department there.  Now after enacting this law the 

State Government will have to deposit Rs. 15, 000 in the bank for every child. 

 

A suggestion was made that Magistrates do not have much time, so instead 

of  a  magistrate,  an  MP  should  be  included  in  this  process.  We  have  made  a 

provision    that  a  junior  officer or  a  separate  officer  alongwith District  Magistrate 

should  be  included  in  this  process.    A  Monitoring  and  Vigilance  Committee  is 

already there wherein MPs and MLAs are Members. In the principal Act, there is a 

provision  for  working  conditions  of  adolescent.    It  means  there  is  some  kind  of 

regulation  about  working  hours,  working  conditions,  etc.    All  the  provisions  of 

labour rights will be included in the proposed Act. 

 

Some  Members  were  referring  to  the  Parliamentary  Standing  Committee.  

Out  of  ten  recommendations  of  the  Parliamentary  Standing  Committee,  we  have 

agreed  to  six  recommendations.    Further,  when  we  pass  this  Bill,  the  ILO 

convention would be ratified.  We will strengthen the Enforcement Agencies too.  

We have to understand that 'labour' is in the 'Concurrent List' and respective State 

Governments need to take action. 

 

One hon. Member was mentioning about RTE Act, which provides for free 

and compulsory education to children between 6 and 14 years. We are linking this 

Act  with  RTE  Act.    We  are  going  to  improve  the  National  Child  Labour  Project 

(NCLP) alongwith all the other  related matters like migrant labourers and bonded 

labourers.    Awareness  is  the  most  important  thing.    Participation  of  all  the 

stakeholders  including  Trade  Unions  and  NGOs  is  very  necessary.    In  a 

comprehensive and balanced way, all these amendments have been brought before 

this House.   

The Bill was passed. 

 
 
 

