 At the outset, I would say that this is a 

remarkable  Bill.    Amma  has  been  a  symbol  of  empowerment  of  socially, 

economically weaker sections in Tamil Nadu.  In order to safeguard the interests of 

the  socially,  educationally  backward  classes  more  effectively,  it  is  proposed  to 

create  a  National  Commission  for  Backward  Classes  with  constitutional  status  at 

par  with  the  National  Commission  for  Scheduled  Castes  and  the  National 

Commission  for  Scheduled  Tribes.    The  Commission  has  powers  to  examine 

requests  for  inclusion  of  any  community  in  the  list  of  backward  classes  and  hear 

complaints  of  over-inclusion  or  under-inclusion, following  which  it  would  advise 

the  Union  Government.    The  reservation  for  SC,ST,  BC  and  MBC  has  now 

reached  the  level  of  69  per  cent.    This  achievement  has  been  made  only  by  our 

Amma.    The  issue  of  social  justice  has  been  an  integral  part  of  the  Dravidian 

Movement.  The Self-Respect Movement was founded in 1925 by E.V. Ramasamy 

and  was  extremely  influential  not  only  in  Tamil  Nadu,  but  also  in  Malaysia  and 

Singapore.    Dr.  C.N.  Annadurai,  the  mentor  of  Dr.  Puratchi  Thalaivar  MGR 

believed  that  through  winning  elections  social  justice  could  be  upheld.    In  the 

Special Session of Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly held on 9th November, 1993, 

it  had  been  unanimously  resolved  to  call  upon  the  Central  Government  to  take 

steps  immediately  to  bring  a  suitable  amendment  to  the  Constitution  of  India  to 

enable  the  Government  of  Tamil  Nadu  to  continue  its  policy  of  69  per  cent 

reservation.  While appointing  the  Chairperson and other  members  to  the  NCBC, 

region-wise  representation  and  chances  should  be  provided  and  at  least  one 

member of the Commission should be a woman.  The State may by law include or 

exclude  from  the  State  List  of  socially  and  educationally  backward  classes 

specified  in  a  notification  issued  under  clause  (3)  any  socially  and  educationally 

backward  class,  provided  that  the  aforesaid  notification  issued  under  the  said 

clause, shall not be varied by any subsequent notification.   

 

