  Several  members  have  laid 

stress on a point that acting on the recommendations of the Standing Committee, a 

fresh  Bill  should  have  been  brought  instead  of  bringing  an  amendment  to  the 

original Act of 1988.  So, if we had accepted the recommendation of the Standing 

Committee  -  repealed  the  1988  Act  and  recreated  a new  law  in  2016- that  would 

have  been  granting  immunity  to  all  people  who  acquired  properties  benami 

between  1988  and  2016.    Obviously,  the  acquisition  cannot  take  place,  but  the 

penal provisions of the 1988 Act also would have stood repealed.  When a new Act 

with similar provision would have come, it could only apply for a penal provision 

to properties which are benami entered into after 2016.  This move would not have 

been  in  larger  public  interest,  particularly  if  large  amounts  of  unaccounted  and 

black money has been used to transact those transactions.  Therefore, prima facie 

the argument looks attractive that 'there is a 9-section law and you are inserting 71 

sections  into it.   As  far  as  penalizing  the guilty  people  is  concerned, the  required 

machinery  is  being  made  operative  under  the  present  amendment  for  punitive 

action.    Moreover,  whistleblowers  need  not  get  any  protection  under  this  Bill 

because  we  have  a  specific  law  for  them  which  across  laws  applies  to  all 

whistleblowers.  When a whistleblowers gives any information, he gets protection 

under  the  Whistleblowers  Act.      As  far  as  making  benami  transaction  a  non-

cognizable offence is concerned, it has been made non-cognizable because we do 

not  want  multiple  agencies  to  come  and  harass  the  people.    The  object  is  not  to 

harass  them,  but  the  object  is  that  there  must  be  prosecution  if  he  has  violated  a 

particular  law.  Furthermore,  if  you  see  the  list  of  amendments  which  the 

Government  has  circulated,  amendment  Nos.  3,  4  and  5,  I  have  proposed  to  the 

hon.  House  that  the  phrase  of  'income'  in  all  the  three  sections  wherever  it  is 

mentioned,  in  accordance  with  the  recommendations  of  the  Standing  Committee, 

should be deleted, and the word in the amended section would be 'known sources' 

and not 'known sources of income'.  Besides, your suggestions regarding the right 

of representation through an authorized representative here also been incorporated 

in the Bill.  You then raised this whole issue of why we have these four stages, that 

is,  initiating  officer,  the  acting  officer,  the  adjudicating  officer  etc.    We  have 

adopted these stages to check the misuse of power by any individual and to reduce 

the possibility of error.   One important question which has been raised by several 

Members  is,  as  to  why  should  the  property  vest  in  the  Central  Government,  why 

not  in  the  State  Government?    Under  all  central  legislations  where  vesting  of 

property takes place, it vests in the Central Government.  At least, I am not aware 

of  any  law  which  is  a  central  law  under  which  vesting  or  acquisition  takes  place 

but  the  property  rights  then  go  to  some  other  authority.    A  legitimate  point  has 

been  raised  that  the  appellate  authority  has  not  been  given  a  specific  power  of 

staying  the  order.  I  would  like  to  say    in  this  regard  that  when  an  appellate 

authority has a power to pass a final order the power of interim suspension of the 

order  which  is  inherent  in  that  power  of  appeal,  irrespective  of  whether  it  is 

specifically  mentioned  or  not.    So  far  as  the  issuing  direction  by  the  Central 

Government  is  concerned, Section  59(3)  clearly  says  that  no  order,  instruction  or 

direction under sub-section I shall be issued which require the authority to decide a 

particular case in a particular manner.  This law is not in conflict with the Income 

Tax  Act  in  any  way.    The  Income  Tax  Act  deals  with  various  provisions  of 

taxation, the powers to levy, the procedures etc.  This particular law deals with any 

benami  property  which  is  acquired  by  a  person  in  somebody  else's  name  to  be 

vested  in  the  Central  Government.    So,  the  two  Acts  are  supplementary  to  each 

other  as  far  as  this  Act  is  concerned.    The  Section  58  clearly  provides  that  the 

Government  has  the  right  to  exempt  the  properties  registered  in  the  name  of  

religious deities and religious organizations.  A question has been raised that under 

Section 53 who would be liable?  Is it the person who acquires the property or the 

person who sells the property?  In this regard the language is very clear; whoever 

enters into benami transaction, and obviously both these people have entered into a 

benami  transaction  itself.    The  last  question  was  with  regard  to  properties  in 

several  Schedule  areas  which  are  covered  by  the  Fifth  Schedule  itself.    This  Act 

does  not  exempt  those  properties.    But  that  exemption  would  be  available  in  the 

Article  244  of  the  Constitution.    The  Fifth  Schedule,  Clause  5  clearly  says  that 

wherever those scheduled properties are, the Governor of that State has the power 

to exempt the operation of any Central legislation to those areas.  

The Bill, as amended, was passed. 

 

 
 

 

