  I  rise  here  to  support  the  Bill.    The  second 

point  in  the  Bill  is  with  respect  to  pensions  to  the  High  Court  and  the  Supreme 

Court  Judges  because  the  High  Court  and  the  Supreme  Court  Judges  are  coming 

from two streams - one is coming from the State Judicial Services, and the other is 

coming  from  the  Bar.    The  Judges  who  are  coming  from  the  Bar  are  not  in  a 

beneficial  position  because  their  experience  at  Bar  is  not  being  taken  into 

consideration  while  calculating  the  pension.    It  took  too  long  to  correct  this 

anomaly.  This Bill is need of the hour, and disparity in pension is being removed 

altogether.    Apart  from  pension,  the  Judges  should  enjoy  benefits  that  are  higher 

than  in  other  branches  of  the  Government,  both  due  to  the  position  of  the  office 

they occupy as well as to ensure their independence and fair judgment.  The first 

principle of democracy is accountability.  But it is the Judiciary alone which is not 

accountable either to the Parliament or to the Executive.  Its accountability should 

be ensured.  Article 124 (2) specifically provides that once the President appoints, 

the Executive is accountable to Parliament.  On the basis of that if the High Court 

and Supreme Court Judges are appointed, then, indirectly, they are accountable to 

the public  at large.   In  so  far  as  Article  124(2)  and  Article  124(4)  are  concerned, 

these are the only two provisions where the constitutional provision has been made 

with respect to appointment and with respect to removal of the Judges.  But those 

provisions are also subject to Article 368 of the Constitution of India because the 

Parliament is supreme.  People of India have given this power and the parliament 

can  amend  it.    It  cannot  be  interfered  by  the  Judiciary  in  the  functioning  of  the 

Parliament.    I  would  also  request  the  hon.  Law  Minister  to  bring  a  suitable 

amendment  in  the  Legal  Services  Authority  Act  because  under  this  Act,  this 

executive  function  is  being  assigned  to  the  Judiciary.    Now  the  Judiciary  is 

exercising  dual  function  -  one  is  the  judicial  function  and  the  other  one  is  the 

executive  function.    So,  this  is  high  time  we  brought  a  suitable  legislation  with 

respect  to  either  restoring  the  mandate  of  article  125(2)  by  way  of  defining  the 

word  consultation  or  bringing  some  suitable  amendment  like  National  Judicial 

Commission.  We should being a suitable legislation by exercising the power under 

article 360A and amending the Constitution to say that once a judge is retired there 

would be no reemployment either in a tribunal or anywhere.   

 

