 No tax law has been amended so enormously 

as this since Independence.  I would like to congratulate the Government for this.  

It  is  a  consequential  amendment  and  there  is  also  a  mention  for  inclusion  of 

warehouses in this.  A task force was also formed in 2003 headed by Kelkar Saheb 

and  he  emphasized  the  need  for  bringing  in  the  GST  on  the  lines  of  VAT. 

Thereafter,  in  the  year  2006-07,  the  Government  made  a  proposal  in  the  Finance 

Bill  for  the  purpose  and  provision  was  made  for  the  implementation  of  GST  in 

place of VAT.  However, the Government introduced the Bill in the year 2010.  At 

that time, apprehensions of all state governments in respect of this Bill could not be 

addressed and the state governments were of the view that this Bill is against their 

interests.  Keeping the interests of the states in view, a provision has been made in 

the Bill that the states who suffer losses due to implementation of this Bill will be 

duly  compensated for a period of five  years by  way  of providing them additional 

amount.  The Central Government will implement this law with great transparency.  

A large number of beedi workers are in unorganised sector.  Keeping their interest 

in  view,  the  beedi  cess  is  also  being  repealed  through  this  Bill.    Lack  of  proper 

coordination  between  the  Central  and  the  State-level  tax  administration  creates 

complexities and cost inefficiency.  After this law is enacted, it will have a positive 

impact  on  inflation.   Agricultural  produce  will  witness  maximum  price  rise.   The 

marginal  farmers  do  not  get  their  cost  price.    The  implementation  of  GST  will 

definitely  raise  the  prices  of  agricultural  produce.    It  will  not  be  a  burden  on  the 

common poor after food security is ensured, because 60-70 per cent poor will get 

the  support  from  the  Union  Government.    The  agricultural  income  will  rise 

consequently and the poor will have a zero tax burden on rice, pulse and wheat.  In 

such  a  situation,  there  will  be  definitely  no  inflation.    All  the  amendments  in  the 

Taxation law is for the sake of ease of doing business.  This is being admitted by 

the  World  Bank  and  IMF  also.    I  support  the  amendment  brought  by  the 

Government to repeal all the Acts.   

 

