 Banks are in a bad shape and are in dire need of 

capital infusion from the Government. Central Electronic Registry has been created 

to prevent multiple loaning from different banks on the same immovable property. 

A central database of security interest in property right has been created. Secondly, 

the  Amendment  empowers  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  to  regulate  the  ARCs  to 

carry  out  audit  and  inspection  of  the  ARCs  and  to  impose  penalty  on  the  ARCs. 

Thirdly,  there  is  a  big  change  that  there  will  be  an  exemption  of  Stamp  Duty  on 

loans  assigned  by  banks  and  financial  institutions  to  Asset  Reconstruction 

Companies.  Fourthly,  the  Amendment  will  enable  the  Non-Institutional  Investors 

to invest  in security  receipts by  the  Asset  Reconstruction  Companies. Fifthly, the 

debenture trustees will have same rights as secured creditors. Sixthly, there would 

be specific timelines for taking possession of secured assets. Seventhly, the priority 

will be given to the secured creditors in the repayment of debts. Amendment of the 

Indian Stamp Act and amendment of the Depositors Act, 1996 will help banks and 

financial institutions to recover bank loans faster. Banks have failed to notice early 

signs of stress on the loans disbursed by them. Secondly, forensic audit should be 

made  compulsory  for  specific  class  of  borrowers  so  that  diversion  of  funds  by 

promoters  to  unrelated  business  do  not  take  place.  Developing  a  vibrant  bond 

market is necessary because most of these big defaulters are actually infrastructure 

companies and for that it is necessary to develop a vibrant bond market to finance 

infrastructure  projects. The biggest  loans are  all  in infrastructure  sector. We  have 

supported the law but the banking system is in its worst crisis. Credit is not flowing 

into  the  market.  Industrial  development  and  recovery  are  in  a  stagnant  process. 

There should not be bank official terrorism where they drag the small leader to the 

court.  

 

