  I  congratulate  the  hon.  Minister  for  placing 

this noble  idea to tap  the vast  waterways.    I  would  like  to  know  whether  there is 

any Budget provision for inland waterways.  I would like to know whether there is 

any feasibility or techno study made by the Government.  There are five National 

Waterways that are still functioning.    In Kerala, Kollam-Kottapuram stretch was 

commissioned  earlier  but  it  is  not  yet  fully  utilised  for  the  want  of  funds.  

Waterways  is  the  cheapest  and  environment  friendly  mode  of  transportation.    It 

also reduces accidents to a great extent.  Even after 68 years of our Independence, 

our progress in this sector is not at all satisfactory.  In this Bill, it is seen that the 

States have to contribute 26 per cent to meet the expenditure.  This does not come 

in the Concurrent List.  I think, the Centre itself has to take the total expenditure.  

The Government has declared 108 National Inland Waterways for development but 

no feasibility or techno study has been made.  When the Bill says that there is no 

detailed study completed, how can these 108 waterways be considered?  As far as 

Kerala is concerned, there were eleven rivers earlier and now the number of rivers 

has  reduced.    I  would  like  to  know  whether  it  was  the  suggestion  of  the  State 

Government  or  whether  it  is  the  suggestion  made  by  the  Expert  Committee  from 

here.    With  regard  to  the  Kollam-Kottapuram  Stretch.    I  have  said  that  though  it 

was commissioned earlier, yet it is not fully utilised.  The State Government needs 

financial  assistance  for  the  fulfilment  of  this  Stretch.    This  Stretch  has  to  be 

extended  to  the  Kozhikode.    It  would  be  better  if  it  is  extended  from  Kollam-

Kozhikode  to  Kasargod  because  the  State  Government  has  an  idea  to  have  a 

navigation process from the South to the North.  There is sufficient infrastructure 

facility.   

 

