  I  fully  support 

the  Admiralty 

(Jurisdiction  and  Settlement  of  Maritime  Claims),  2016  as  it  repeals  the  outdated 

colonial legislation and brings in a sovereign legislation of our country in respect 

of maritime laws as well as admiralty jurisdiction.  With regard to the Bill, I would 

like  to  suggest  two-three  points.    When  the  Parliament  passes  a  legislation,  it 

should not be vague; it should be absolutely clear.  But unfortunately clause 1 and 

clause 3 of the Bill are not clear.  Clause 1 and clause 3 of the Bill deal with the 

admiralty  jurisdiction.    Clause  1  of  the  Bill  says  that  the  admiralty  jurisdiction 

means that  it shall  apply  to  every  vessel,  irrespective  of the place  of  residence or 

domicile  of  the  owner.    Subsequently,  the  proviso  says  that  it  shall  not  be 

applicable  to  an  inland  vessels  under  Inland  Vessels  Act,  1917  or  a  vessel  under 

construction,  naval  warship,  foreign  vessels  etc.    It  is  applicable  to  all  vessels, 

which is the first part of clause 1.  Then, the proviso says that it is not applicable to 

these  vessels.    Subsequently,  the  same  provision  says  that  'but  it  can  be  made 

applicable  if  there  is  a  notification  by  the  Government  of  India.'    That  is  my 

question.    If  the  Government  wants  to  make  it  applicable  to  all  the  vessels, 

including  the  foreign  vessels  and  vessels  under  construction,  inland  vessels,  why 

are they giving the authority to the Government through a notifications?  I would 

like  to  describe  it  that  this  is  a  legislation by  means  of  a  notification.   The  entire 

legislative  process  should  be  done  by  the  Parliament  not  by  the  Executive,  by 

means  of  a  notification.    Which  vessel  is  involved  and  what  is  the  territorial 

jurisdiction, is not being determined by the Parliament, but it is being determined 

by the Executive.  So, my point is that it is not a fair practice of legislative process.  

The  Bill  is  absolutely  in  respect  of  civil  liability,  but  in  respect  of  fixing  up  the 

criminal liability in the crimes, which are being in the territorial waters and in the 

exclusive economic zones, some specific legislation is required.   

 

