  The country felt the need for 

a  better  taxation  system  since  years.      A  modified  form  of  GST  Bill  has  been 

introduced in this House on which most of the states gave their concurrence.  This 

Bill  will  save  the  country  from  a  labyrinth  of  taxation.    This  type  of  taxation 

system  will  lead  to  nation's  economic  growth.    This  has  already  been  debated  in 

detail  in  the  Standing  Committee.    At  least  144  countries  have  adopted  the  GST 

system.    GST  system  will  add  to  our  GDP growth, benefit  the  farmers  and  make 

goods cheaper for the common  man.  Analyst and economists agree that with the 

implementation  of  GST  there  will  be  saving  of  at  least  30  per  cent  of  time  in 

transportation  and  price goods  will  fall  at  least 30  to 40  per  cent.  Industries  will 

only  develop  when  taxation  is  simplified.    It  is  a  revolutionary  step  to  end 

corruption.  It is evident from experience that when a businessmen has to pay 16 

different  types  of  taxes  in  different  places  it  leads  to  corruption.    It  is  a 

revolutionary  Bill.    It  is  the  dream  of  the  Prime  Minister  to  bring  about  an 

improvement  in  the  life  of  the  125  people.    Regarding  the  levy  of  1  per  cent 

additional tax it is only for two years for those states where production takes place.  

The  loss  of  revenue  to  the  state  with  the  implementation  of  the  GST  will  be 

compensated  by  the  centre  for  five  years  as  per  different  slabs.    There  is  also    a 

provision for review of this Bill.  Most of the States want its implementation.  In 

the  council  the  States  will  have  2/3rd    voting  shares  and  Centre  will  have  1/3rd 

voting shares.  The House should pass this Bill and cooperative in introducing the 

GST system- the unified tax system from 1 April, 2016.  This Bill prove to be the 

milestone  in  the  progress  of  the  country.    While  supporting  this  Bill.  I  profusely 

thank  the  hon.  Minister  of  Finance  and  the  hon.  Prime  Minister  for  bringing  this 

Bill.   

 

