  The  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  Bill,  2016  is  meant  for 

making  effective  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  rights  of  the  disabled 

persons and matters related and subjects incidental thereto.  The Rights of Persons 

with Disabilities Act was enacted in our country in the year 1995 and thereafter in 

the year 2007 the United Nations Organization held consultations with a number of 

countries  and  suggested  a  number  of  measures  for  the  empowerment  of  the 

disabled persons.  The Government of India, too, signed this convention and as per 

that  there  is  a  need  to  take  measures  for  empowerment  of  the  disabled  in  our 

country  as  well.    It  was  felt  that  the  Act  of  1995  which  has  been  in  force  in  our 

country, is not enough to empower them.  As such, we have made an effort to bring 

about  revolutionary  changes  in  the  Bill  introduced  by  us  as  compared  to  the  old 

Bill.  Under this Bill, there are 21 categories of the disabled instead of 07 so that no 

disabled  persons  would  remain  deprived  from  getting  the  benefit  of  the  Union  or 

State  Government  and  they  could  be  empowered  in  an  expeditious  way.    In  this 

Bill, provision has been made for 04 per cent reservation for the disabled instead of 

03 per cent.  It is expected that similar provisions will be made in the States by the 

respective  State  governments  as  well.    There  will  be  an  Advisory  Board  at  the 

Union  and  State  level  for  the  empowerment  of  the  disabled.    There  will  be  a 

system  of  commissioners  at  the  Union  and  State  level  to  deliberate  upon  the 

empowerment  of  the  disabled.    There  will  be  a  Chief  Commissioner  and  two 

Commissioners  out  of  which  one  will  be  from  the  disabled  category.    We  have 

made  enough  provision  in  this  Bill  to  remove  the  social,  economic,  educational, 

physical, mental and intellectual disabilities of the disabled persons.  Provision for 

extending  medical  facility  has  also  been  made.    There  is  provision  to  promote 

sports  activities  for  them.    It  would  not  be  wrong  if  I  state  that  every  type  of 

provision has been made in this Bill for the all round development of the disabled.  

I would like to urge the House to consider and pass this Bill. 

 

