 The farmers who feed 125 crore people 

of  this  country  are  themselves  now  reeling  under  crisis.    I  am  grateful  to  the 

Government  of  India  for  allocating  Rs.  10  lakh  crore  for  the  farmers  for  the  first 

time in history.  A provision of Rs. One lakh crore has also been made for micro 

irrigation.  But all the amount is likely to be disbursed to these farmers in the form 

of loans.  It seems to me that these schemes are going to further increase the loan 

burden of the farmers who are already badly burdened with loans.  It is a matter of 

shame  that  a  total  number  of  12,602  farmers  and  agriculture  labourers  have 

committed suicide even during the regime of this Government.  If the policies and 

schemes  of  subsidies  implemented  by  spending  lakhs  of  crores  of  rupees  for 

farmers  come  to  a  naught  in  addressing  their  problems,  they  are  required  to  be 

changed.  I think that providing crop insurance cover is more important than that of 

crop  loan  waiver.    About  14  crore  farmers  fail  to  avail  of  the  benefits  of  new 

Pradhan  Mantri  Fasal  Bima  Yojana  every  year  for  one  or  the  other  reason.    This 

problem  can  be  sorted  out  by  providing  loans  to  them  at  five  per  cent  rate  of 

interest  and  providing hundred per cent insurance cover to all their crops instead 

of providing them loan interest waiver.  A number of such issues can be addressed 

to  if  MSP    is  decided  to  the  tune  of  fifty  per  cent  of  the  production  cost.    More 

attention is required to be paid to export also as a number of schemes like Make in 

India,  Startup  India,  Skill  India,  Digital  India  are  being  implemented  and  we  are 

about to launch several policies in order to boost the industry.  The sugar industry 

of Maharashtra is undergoing a difficult phase and hence its loan is also required to 

be  restructured.    I  would  like  to  make  one  important  suggestion  that  if  milk, 

banana,  eggs,  jaggery  and  peanuts  are  served  under  Mid-day-  meal  scheme  then 

not  only  14  crore  children  will  be  benefitted  but  the  farmers  will  also  get 

remunerative  prices  for  their  produces.    Moreover,    interest  free  education  loan 

should be provided to the children of the farmers.  Broadly speaking, if the farmers 

of  the  country  are  to  be  saved,  their  loans  have  to  be  waived  off  completely.  

Special attention is required to be paid to Maharashtra as most of the incidents of 

suicides i.e. 4000 out of 12000 have taken place in Maharashtra only.   

 

