    This  Bill  is  a  very  important  step  forward  for 

transforming the lives of the most downtrodden people of society by changing the 

rural infrastructure.  NABARD has been playing a very important role by touching 

upon  the  lives  of  millions  of  people  in  rural  India  both  directly  as  well  as 

indirectly.    NABARD    is  also  going  to  play  a  very  important  role  in  creation  of 

infrastructure  to  be  used  by  the  farmers.    If  we  want  to  put  an  end  to 

unemployment in the country then strengthening of rural economy will have to be 

undertaken  and  for  this  purpose  there  is  a  need  for  revitalizing  our  agriculture, 

dairy farming and other industries.  The farmers of all States get loan at affordable 

rates through NABARD.  There are several States in the country in which farmers 

are provided interest free loans of ticket size to the tune of one and half lakh to five 

lakh  rupees.    NABARD  is  the  primary  vehicle  for  these  loans  which  provide 

refinancing facilities for these loans.  It is for the first time that we have been able 

to  increase  the  irrigated  land  area  by  using  the  financing  facilities  of  NABARD.  

The  crumbled  infrastructure  in  rural  areas  is  also  getting  a  face  lift  through 

NABARD.  Presently, RBI holds 0.4 per cent equity of NABARD.  The owner of 

the Bank cannot be its supervisory agency.  Therefore, the Government is perfectly 

justified  in  deciding  the  role  of  supervisor  only  for  the  RBI  and  it  is  for  this 

purpose  that  the  Government  has  addressed  this  technical  lacuna  of  separating 

ownership  from  the supervisory  role.   I  would  like to  thank  the  hon.  Minister for 

increasing  the  share  capital  of  NABARD  through  this  Bill.    NABARD  will 

certainly play a role in bringing about radical changes in the rural economy and in 

strengthening  the  rural  infrastructure.    We  will  also  be  able  to  realize  the  aim  of 

doubling farm income as envisaged by the hon. Prime Minister.   

 

