  I  thank  all  the  hon. 

Members  who  have  participated  in  the  discussion  on  this  Bill.    Whatever 

suggestion  have  come,  seek  better  implementation  of  the  Bill.    India  has  gone  a 

long  way  in  the  field  of  medicine  with  regard  to  AIDS.    Parliamentary  forums, 

civil society groups, activists and NGOs  - all played a proactive role to give their 

suggestions  to  the  government  and  the  Standing  Committee.    In  1980s,  it  was 

projected  that  AIDS will  become  an  endemic  and  epidemic  and  India  will  be  the 

epicenter of this disease.  We are providing for free treatment of any HIV positive 

person  in  this  Bill.    India  has  succeeded  to  great  extent  in  its  prevention.  

Millennium  Development  Goals    -  4  had  target  that  we  would  arrest  and  reverse 

tuberculosis,  HIV  and  malaria.    We  have  surpassed  these  goals  that  is  we  have 

arrested  and  reversed  the  incidence  of  these  diseases.    Free  anti-retro  viral 

treatment is being provided to 10 lakh people living with HIV positive and this is 

the single largest ART programme in the world.  There are 22,000 testing facilities 

in  India  which  are  conducting  2.9  crore  HIV  tests  annually.    There  was  a  time 

when  AIDS  drugs  were  very  costly.    But  Indian  pharmacies  have  manufactured 

affordable  drugs  with  which  we  are  treating  not  only  Indian  people  but  also  the 

entire Africa.  We have associated community people in high-risk areas to conduct 

aggressive awareness programme.  One point raised was that there is no provision 

of funding in this Bill.  It is expressly provided in this Bill that the central and the 

State  Governments  will  provide  free  ART.    This  is  100  per  cent  Centrally-

sponsored  scheme.    Earlier,  treatment  of  a  patient  started  when  his  CD-4  count 

reached  350  levels.    But  last  year  we  have  decided  that  treatment  will  start  even 

when the CD-4 count reaches 500 levels.  Now the government is planning to start 

the treatment just after testing positive.  Standing Committee gave 11 suggestions 

out of which the government has accepted 10.  The same committee had suggested 

to keep the words 'as far as possible'.  But at the same time I would like to assure 

the  House  that  even  a  single  patient  will  not  be  left  out.    The  government  will 

provide  the  treatment.    A  number  of  issues  have  been  raised.    One  is  about 

ombudsman.  It is not necessary that there will be only one ombudsman, there may 

be two.  The State Government has to decide on this count.  It is mandatory for the 

blood banks to test the blood for hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV before storing it.  

Till  now  we  were  following  the  guidelines  but  now  after  this  enactment 

discrimination with any HIV positive person will be an offence.  We are leaders in 

manufacturing of anti-retro viral drug.  We are not only connected with the patient, 

we  are  also  connected  with  the  patient's  family.    So  when  the  patient  goes 

somewhere, we know how to track him.  We will see to it that every minor thing is 

addressed while making rules.  This is a historical day.  The House will pass this 

Bill which will help in eliminating HIV. 

The Bill was passed. 

 

