 The Britishers created Postal Network 

; they created Rail Network and some other systems. But education was not their 

priority.  This  is  the  priority  of  the  independent  India.  Our  policy  is  "Sabko 

Shiksha, Achhi Shiksha" i.e. quality education to all. The condition of government 

schools is miserable. Even the poor avoid to get their wards admitted there. Even 

the poorest of the poor wants his kids to be well educated. That is the aspiration of 

the  poor.  It  is  the  concern  of  all  of  us.  Therefore,  we  must  resolve  that  we  will 

work  unitedly  to  improve  the  quality  of  education.  By  15th  of  August,  I  want  all 

Members to study draft policy and come out with suggestions. Let me now tell you 

what  we  are  doing  to  improve  quality.  There  is  an  initative  called  the  Technical 

Education Quality Improvement for Rs. 26 crore which will now be implemented 

in  190  institutes  over  the  next  four  years.    Many  hon.  Members  said  that  there 

needs  to  be  immediate  upgradation  of  infrastructure,  particularly  research 

infrastructure. We are thinking of a Higher Education Funding Initiative which will 

go  to  the  Cabinet.  The  Government  has  already  indicated  in  the  Budget,  that  we 

will invest Rs. 1,000 crore and there will be a bank or some other body which will 

monitor  it.  I  have  already  mandated  that  40  per  cent  of  that  money  should  be 

invested in improving the research infrastructure. There is big issue raised by many 

hon. members as regards the private engineering colleges and institutes. Some said 

that  some  institutes  are  getting  closed  and  that  is  correct.  If  you  are  not 

qualitatively  good,  you  will  have  to  face  the  music;  and  if  you  are  qualitatively 

good,  people  will  appreciate  you  more.  We  want  qualitative  improvement  in  all 

respects. To improve quality, first we must fill all the faculty posts. That gives rise 

to the question whether people are ready to become the faculty. I have interviewed 

may  students.  Many  of  them  have  said  that  they  want  to  become  teachers.  That 

gives  us  great  hope  that  the  future  generation  is  also  motivated  and  they  want  to 

become teachers. We have to give three things  - dignity , compensation, freedom 

and  we  also  have  to    introduce  accountability.  Then  only  we  can  have  good 

teachers and good teachers should be appreciated. If teachers work with motivation 

they can create miracles as was done in a village near  Chitrakoot in Bundelkhand. 

I adopted the village. I am saluting even today all the teaching community because 

I  believe  that  if  they  take  up  the  cause, they  can  change  the  whole  scenario.  The 

basic  quality  at  the  primary  level  is  where  the  real  problem  lies.  We  will  give 

everything that is needed. Vacancies will be filled. There will be quality training. 

There  will  be  in-service  training  and  pre-service  training;  all  will  be  there.  Hon. 

Members  have  talked  about  PhDs.  In  our  country  and  in  the  best  of  the  best 

countries,  you  are  a  PhD  holder  only  if  you  added  something  new  to  the  existing 

knowledge. Compilation does not become PhD. As I said industries will come up with 

customised  demands  for  their  research  requirements.  The  IITs,  NITs,  IIMs  and  all 

other  technical  institutes  will  be  involved  in  doing  the  research.  We  must  attract 

foreign  students.  Foreign  students  came  to our  countries  for  study  earlier  also.  Even 

today  they  do  so  but  we  want  that  their  number  should  rise.  Innovation,  industry 

interaction    should  be  promoted.  Quality,  good  faculty,  research  facilities  and 

innovation are linked in this scenario and that is the vision of the Government led by 

Shri  Narendra  Modi.  Every  state  must  have  atleast  one  NIT.  Everybody  wants  that 

quality institute should be there. This higher education fund of Rs. 20 thousand crore 

would meet the demand of research abilities and other infrastructure. It is the initiative 

of  Shri  Modi  Ji  which  endeavours  that  no  poor  person  should  be  deprived  of 

education.  People  having  income  of  upto  Rs.  9  lakh  annually  would  be  able  to  get 

interest  free  education  loan  for  their  wards.  Quality  education  has  to  be  provided 

through  technology  to  all  those  who  are  living  in  remote  areas.  They  will  get 

education  through  TV,  Internet.    There  will  be  Any  Where  Education,  Any  Time 

Education. There is a programme of Swayamprabha, a programme of IIT Pal. 8 to 15 

lakh  students  appear  at  JEE.  Most  of  the  students  rush  to  Kota  for  tuition.  We  are 

taking initiative that students should avail quality tuition free of cost and they do not 

have to rush to any coaching centres.      

The Bill was passed 

