    In  2012-13,  2013-14  or  in  the  last  two 

years what was the rate of inflation is a question of figures only.  In 2012-13 the 

food price inflation was in double digit that is 10.2 percent and in 2013-14 it was 

9.5 percent.  The rate of food price inflation was 12.2 and 11.3 percent respectively 

in the last two years of the UPA regime.  The wholesale price index was 7.4 and 6 

percent respectively during the same period.  For 18 months in a row this country 

saw a negative wholesale price index.  It was 0.8 percent in the month of May and 

1.6 percent in the month of June.  So, what comparison are we talking about?  The 

increase  in  the  prices  of  vegetables  in  the  month  of  July  is  a  matter  of  seasonal 

increase.  The price of sugar remained at Rs. 22-23 per Kg for months together.  At 

this  price  the  farmers  could  not  get  remunerative  price  for  sugarcane  and  that 

resulted  in  the  closure  of  several  sugar  mills.    The  sugar  mills  were  not  making 

payments to the sugar cane growers.  In this situation,  the government intervened 

took  measures  and  a  sum  of  Rs.  27,000  crore  of    farmers  that  was  outstanding 

against the sugar mills came down to Rs. 1.5  thousand crore only.  Had prices of 

sugar remained static at Rs. 30-32 per kg, the farmers would have got the payment 

for their sugarcane.  But when the prices of sugar started increasing gradually, the 

government imposed a ban on its export so that the rising prices of sugar could be 

brought down.  Presently, sugar prices are hovering around 33-34 Rs. per kg.  The 

increase  in  the  prices  of  pulses  is  indeed  a  cause  of  concern.    The  present 

requirement  of  pulses  in  the  country  is  about  23  million  tonnes.    Whereas  the 

country produces only 17 million tonnes of pulses.  So in such a situation we have 

to import pulses to make up this gap of 6 million tonnes.  We have signed a long 

term  MoU  with  Mozambique  for  importing  pulses.    A  reference  has  been  made 

with  regard  to  petroleum  prices.    It  is  true  that  prices  of  crude  have  come  down.  

How has India used - and this is being globally commented upon - this reduction in 

crude prices?  That additional resource is used by the Centre for capital investment 

and  infrastructure.    The  highway  sector  had  to  be  revived.    The  railways  needed 

more  investment.    The  port  sector  needed  more  investment.    Investment  in  rural 

roads  had  to  be  increased.    Therefore,  the  NDA  Government,  used  this  entire 

investment.  We made up for the loss of the oil companies.  We passed on benefits 

to  the  consumers  and  we  used  the  third  part  of  the  share  also  in  larger  public 

interest by diverting it into public investment.  We empowered the States by giving 

them  more  resources  so  that  they  would  also  make  public  investment.    If  India 

today  for  two  years  in  a  row  is  the  fastest  growing  economy  in  the  world,  it  is 

thanks  really  to  this  public  investment  and  to  the  FDI  that  has  been  coming  into 

this country.  I would like to say this only kindly compare the situation during the 

regime of  the UPA government with that of the present NDA government as that 

would amply clear the air.   

 

