  I  would  like  to  thank  the  government  that  it 

has  expressed  its  concern  and  sentiments  over  the  children  through  the  Child 

Labour Amendment Bill.  The child labour usurp the childhood of the children and 

prevent them from going to school regularly.  A number of factors are responsible 

for the child labour but the poverty and the lack of education stand to be the major 

factors.  Unfortunately, the girls are more susceptible to child labour than the boys.  

Its main cause lies in their inability to pay the fees for girls.  In case of daughters, 

child labour starts right from their house and finally goes to the farms.  Thus they 

are  put  to  work  like  a  labour.    In  the  recent  past  the  children  were  rescued  from 

cracker industries, zari industries, carpet industries and bangle industries by several 

NGOs.    The  rescued  children  need  to  be  trained  through  Skill  Development 

Schemes  so  that  they  are  not  pushed  again  into  child  labour.    The  amendment  in 

this Bill has been brought to strike a balance between the need to end child labour 

and  to  provide  compulsory  education  till  14  years  under  Free  and  Compulsory 

Education  Act.    The  decision  to  completely  prohibit  children  upto  the  age  of  14 

years for employment is a welcome step.  There is a need to frame laws also for the 

children and adolescents working in film and TV industry.  The aim is to substitute 

Section  3.    This  amendment  permits  children  to  work  in  the  family  after  school 

hours.  The Government while introducing the amendment in this Bill has struck a 

balance between the need to end child labour and permit children for employment 

will  some  conditions  keeping  in  view  social  and  economic  conditions  of  our 

country.  I congratulate the government for this.  The children study in school but it 

is  the  parents  who  impart  skills  to  them.    This  Amendment  Bill  has  been 

introduced to stop the exploitation of children in slate, pencil etc. industries which 

is  harmful  for  them.    After  coming  to  home  from  school  the  children  learn  some 

trade  which  will  make  them  self-dependent.    After  growing  up,  such  children 

would  also  help  their  families.    Another  amendment  relates  to  Section  14(1).    In 

such matters instead of penalizing the poor parents a lenient view needs to be taken 

so  that  an  alternate  source  of  income  can  be  provided  to  the  family  to  help  in 

abolishing  child  labour.    In  this  regard,  the  government  has  formulated  several 

schemes  out  of  these  schemes  the  most  prominent  is  the  MUDRA  Yojana.  

However,  parents  who  repeatedly  push  the  children  into  child  labour  should  be 

penalized.  The punishment has been increased to two years from six months and 

penalty from Rs.20 thousand to Rs.50 thousand.  This amount of Rs. 50 thousand 

is less for the employers.  In this Amendment Bill, there is provision to give more 

powers  to  district  magistrates  who  are  already  overworked.    Instead  of  this 

provision,  a    monitoring  committee  be  formed  under  the  chairmanship  of  the 

Members of Parliament.  There is a need to send the child labourers to schools. Its 

desired  results  will  only  be  visible  when  there  is  coordination  among  all  the 

ministries.  I am of  the view that after the passage of this Bill the number of child 

labourers will fall drastically and will eradicate child labour.  

 

