    Today  we  require  multi-disciplinary  kind  of 

education and what I find is that we are creating more and more IITs and NITs. I 

think  it  has  been  in  our  scheme  of  things  to  create  more  and  more  engineers 

because  this  great  nation  requires  many  more  engineers.  But  are  those  engineers 

being  trained  in  social  sciences?  We  have  to  find  a  pathway  to  bring  NITs  into 

building  better  universities.  For  instance,  IITs  can  also  at  some  stage  become 

greater institutions of higher learning in the university format. Research relevant to 

Sikim  or  relevant  to  that  area  needs  to  be  done.  For  instance,  NIT  can  be  tasked 

with the research on mountain railways. We do have a need for building mountain 

railways, especially if you are taking railways right up to the Nathu La Pass which 

is almost 14,000 feet. I again support this Bill but with the rider that I think there is 

a  lot  more  thinking  that  we  need  to  do  to  fashion  out  a  much  more  multi-

disciplinary approach in our education process.  

 

SHRI  ARUN  KUMAR:    I  support  the  National  Institute  of  Science 

Education, 2016 Bill. Certainly, in the past 25-30 years, there has been an immense 

decline in the education sector in the country and education is identified more with 

employment  whereas  in  this  country  for  thousands  of  years,  education  was 

identified with knowledge. The teachers  are  no  longer  respected  whereas it  is the 

teachers  who are the  nation  builders. There  should  be  quality  in all  walks of life, 

which is only possible when teachers are determined to build the nation. There is 

no  lack  of  merit  in  our  country.  There  is  a  small  Patva  Toli,  Gaya,  Bihar  where 

there was not even a single matric pass student ten years ago. In the past ten years, 

Patva  Toli  has  produced  five  hundred  IITians.  Somehow,  our  education  has  lost 

direction  and  respect  to  teachers  has  come  down  and  there  has  been  a  decline  in 

respect  shown  to  teachers.  Our  Government  is  determined  to  create  a  new  India 

and with the development of educational environment certainly new dimension of 

development would open. 

 

