  We  know  that  there  are  some 

heinous  crime  cases  like  'Nirbhaya'.    It  is  also  partly  true  that  crimes  being 

committed  by  children  in  the  age  group  of  16  to  18  years  are  increasing  and  to 

combat  this  situation,  the  new  Bill  is  being  introduced,  though  there  are  some 

differing  views  within  the  Cabinet,  within  the  Standing  Committee,  and  among 

experts and social activists.  Before making such a major sensitive change in this 

Act, we  must think why crimes being committed by juveniles are increasing.  As 

per  the  report  of  the  National  Crime  Records  Bureau,  2011,  the  crimes  against 

children  reported  a  24  per  cent  increase  when  compared  with  2010  figures.  

Everybody  knows  about  cruelty  to  child  labour.    Due  to  poverty,  children  are 

working  very  hard  like  adults  in  brick-kilns,  small  industries,  shops  and  in 

agriculture sector. These are also crimes against children. There are some laws to 

prevent  such  crimes,  but  where  is  the  implementation  of  such  laws  to  save  the 

children  of  the  juveniles?    The  net  result  is  that  juveniles  are  acting  like  adults.  

Now,  we  are  going  to  introduce  harder  laws  than  before.    This  Bill  will  possibly 

violate  articles  14,  21  and  20  (1)  of  the  Constitution.    The  provision  of  juveniles 

between the ages of 16 and 18 to be tried as an adult is not in accordance with the 

United Nations Convention on the Rights of Child.  A solution to the problem has 

to be thought of within the parameters of the Juvenile Justice Act itself and this can 

be  done  by  strengthening  the  institutions  under  the  Act  and  by  ensuring  that  a 

juvenile  who  has  committed  such  a  crime  is  not  allowed  to  repeat  the  offence 

and/or intimidate the victim again.  One immediate amendment that can be moved 

is  to  remove  the  upper  limit  of  3  years  for  detention  under  the  present  Act  to  a 

suitable  period  agreed  upon  by  all  concerned  persons.    Thus,  the  Amendment 

suggested  in  the  Juvenile  Justice  Bill  2014  is  shortsighted  and  unjust  and  against 

all tenets of human rights.  It will not lead to either public safety or improvement in 

juvenile  behaviour.    To  achieve  this,  the  Juvenile  Justice  Act  should  be 

strengthened.    Special  consultation  with  the  eminent  psychologist  and  social 

activists is much needed. First save the childhood of the juveniles and then punish 

if necessary.   

 

