  The  Bill  seeks  to  amend  the  Benami 

Transaction  Act,  1988.    The  Bill  seeks  to  amend  the  definition  of  benami 

transactions;  establish  adjudicating  authorities  and  an  Appellate  Tribunal  to  deal 

with  benami  transactions;  and  specify  the  penalty  for  entering  into  benami 

transaction.  The Bill also specifies certain cases which will be exempted from the 

definition of a benami transaction.  In the exception to benami transaction as laid 

down in Section 2(1) of the Principal Act - the expression 'out of known sources of 

income' should be replaced by 'out of known sources' so as to bring clarity in cases 

where loan funds which are not income, are used as consideration for purchase of a 

property  and  not  be  kept  out  of  the  purview  of  the  Bill.    In  a  federal  set-up  like 

India where land is a State subject, it would be deemed appropriate that the rights 

of confiscated benami properties vest with State Government instead of the Central 

Government.    The  amendment  Bill  is  likely  to  have  very  serious  impact  in  rural 

areas,  where  because  of  large  number  of  cash  transactions  and  poor  state  of  land 

records,  even  genuine  land  owners  may  find  it  difficult  to  establish  their  titles 

records  being  non-traceable.    As  a  precaution,  therefore,  a  thorough  and  serious 

inquiry  by  the  Initiating  Officer  becomes  essential  before  the  matter  goes  to  the 

Adjudicating  Authority.    The  time  taken  for  such  inquiry  should,  therefore,  be 

extended from the proposed period of thirty days to thirty months.  Time limit for 

disposing of the appeal by an Appellate Tribunal say within 2 years from the date 

of filling of the appeal, should be fixed in the Bill.  The provisions are also silent 

on  the  role  of  whistle-blowers  and  their  protection,  which  would  be  important  to 

detect benami holdings.  Adequate provisions in this regard should be incorporated 

in  the  Bill.    In  the  proposed  Bill,  the  appointment  of  the  Adjudicating  Authority 

has been prescribed  in  clause  9;  however,  no such  mechanism  has been  provided 

for  appointment  of  the  Initiating  Officer  and  the  Approving  Authority.    The 

proposed Bill may therefore be restructured by inserting a Chapter on Authorities 

on the lines of Income Tax Act so as to have greater clarity and avoid legal hassles.  

Stress  should  be  laid  on  digitalization  of  land  record  and  its  regular  updation.  

Efforts  should  be  made  to  deal  with  the  problem  systematically  to  the  extent 

possible  without  needless discretionary  intrusions.    There should be  complete  co-

ordination and intelligence sharing between different agencies.  This aspect should 

be adequately reflected in the Bill.  The need of the hour is to exercise the existing 

powers judiciously and in a credible manner.  The Finance Minister in his Budget 

Speech  2015  had  stated  the  purpose  of  the  Bill  was  to  curb  the  generation  of 

domestic  black  money.    However,  the  Standing  Committee  found  that  the 

Statement  of  Objects  and  Reasons  of  the  Bill  was  silent  over  that  significant  

aspect.  The intent of the Government should therefore be clearly mentioned in the 

Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill.  

 

