  Before  I  dwell  on 

this Bill, I would like to put on record my opposition to your ruling in relation to 

the  Finance  Bill  though  under  Article  110,  the  final  authority  rests  with  you  and 

this  has  to  be  accepted  by  all.    Our  hon.  Finance  Minister  while  presenting  the 

budget tried to paint a rosy picture of our economy and also a sense of satisfaction 

was  distinct  in  his  speech.  In  fact,  in  his  speech  he  tried  to  convey  that  our 

economy was performing well and was ready to take off.  We do not agree with it.  

We understand that our economy has been underperforming and in the prevailing 

circumstances,  our  economy  could  not  reach  where  it  should  have  reached.    The 

Government has not been able to give impetus to our economy in these three years.   

Our  GDP growth  rate  stands at 7  per  cent  even  after demonetization, the  country 

should be satisfied about it.  However, it should be compared with the growth rate 

of 10 years period during the UPA Government.  During UPA's 10 years rule, the 

average growth rate stood at 7.8 per cent and thereafter promise of exalted achchhe 

din  was  made  and  naturally  the  growth  rate  should  have  improved.    We  do  not 

have any exact data based on the new series as of now, but taking into the account 

the new series formula introduced by the new Government, our growth rate during 

the  10  years  period  works  out  to  be  11.3  per  cent  instead  of  7.8  per  cent.    Many 

apprehensions are being expressed on the 7 per cent growth of our GDP based on 

the  new  series.    The  Government  should  give  convincing  reply  to  it  so  that  the 

credibility of our economy remains intact.  Seven per cent growth rate of our GDP 

is primarily consumption driven.  We all know that in the last quarter of the year 

consumption growth has risen.  It was due to good rainfall and implementation of 

the 7th Pay Commission.  Likewise, the Government is getting the windfall of steep 

reduction in the prices of oil.  If the benefit of 7th Pay Commission and fall in oil 

prices is taken away then the actual growth rate of our GDP will come down to 6 

per cent only.  However, the youths of our country need jobs.  In the year 2010 the 

investment  proposals  relating  to  large,  medium  and  small  industries  were  to  the 

tune  of  Rs.17  lakh  36  thousand  crore  and  also  in  the  year  2011  the  investment 

proposals received were to the tune of Rs.15 lakh 39 thousand crore and in the year 

2016  the  investment  proposal  have  come  down  to  Rs.3  lakh  93  thousand  crore 

only.  In fact when investments are made, factories get set up and jobs are created.   

The capacity utilization in the industry was 80 per cent in the year 2011 which has 

come down to 70 per cent now.  The health of our corporate sector is a concern for 

all of us.  One more startling fact I would like to place before this august House as 

to  how  much  the  non-food  credit  off-take  and  the  loan  amount  is  being  obtained 

for  setting  up  factories?    The  industry  has  taken  the  least  loan  from  banks  in  the 

last  quarter  during  the  last  60  years  and  still  the  Government  says  that  our 

economy is in good shape in the country.  As far as exports are concerned, when 

this Government was formed in the year 2013-14, our Government had left a trail 

of  $26.2  billion  exports  per  month.    After  three  years  of  this  Government,  the 

exports  stand  at  $21.2  billion.  We  should  have  taken  advantage  of  the  prevailing 

situation in the world which is being reflected in low prices of oil and commodities 

and  we  should  have  taken  advantage  of  the  stagnating  Chinese  economy  as  well.  

However,  we  have  failed  to  take  advantage  of  these  developments.    India  should 

have become the factory of the world replacing China but this place is being taken 

by  the  countries  like  Vietnam  and  Bangladesh.    There  are  several  sectors  like 

garment,  apparel  and  footwear  etc.  which  are  job  intensive  sectors  which  means 

that  these  sectors  create  disproportionately  larger  amount  of  jobs  for  every  one 

lakh  investment  as  compared  to  the  other  sectors.    If  we  employ  our  finite 

resources  as  investments  in  these  sectors  then  we  can  not  only  replace  China 

among  the  major  exporters  in  the  world  but  also  provide  employment  to  the 

millions of youth keeping in tune with the promise made by your government for 

creating 20 million employment opportunities every year.  The data on job creation 

which  is  coming  out  is  worrisome.    The  International  Labour  Organisation  has 

estimated  that  India  is  the  only  emerging  economy  in  the  world  where 

unemployment  is  going  to  grow  for  the  next  two  years  i.e.  in  the  year  2017  and 

2018.  The formulation of Taxation Policy of a country should be directed towards 

addressing  the  problems  like  jobless  growth.    Therefore,  when  corporate  tax  was 

cut we had hoped that some sectors  would be provided package.  However, what 

the government has done is that it has reduced the corporate tax rate from 30 per 

cent  to  25  per  cent  across  the  board  in  respective  of  those  companies  whose 

turnover is less than 50 crore.  This is not the right policy.  I would like to urge the 

Government that keeping in mind the prevailing state of economy and the kind of 

gloomy  forecast  about  the  job  creation  being  made  by  the  world  agencies  the 

government should provide sector specific breaks otherwise we will not be able to 

face the situation.  Taxation policy has an important role to play in addressing the 

gap between the poor and the rich.  Today, as far as taxation is concerned the tilt is 

very  much in favour of indirect taxes which are to be shared by all equally.  The 

direct  taxes  have  been  decreasing  while  the  indirect  taxes  have  been  increasing 

during the last three years.  The direction of economic policy is a matter of concern 

and it is causing and will continue to wider the gap between the poor and the rich.  

We  have  to  ponder  over  the  policy  framework  which  does  not  allow  this  gap  to 

increase.    The  Tax  on  petroleum  is  considered  one  of  the  most  regressive  and 

retrograde in nature.  The Excise duty during our government was Rs. 1.10 per litre 

of  petrol  and  Rs. 1.35  of  one  litre  diesel  which  has  been  increased  upto  Rs. 8.95 

and 7.96 respectively. I would like to demand that the government should reduce 

the  duty  on  diesel  and  petrol  by  atleast    Rs.  5  so  that  this  message  could  be  sent 

across the country that while the government is inclined towards cutting the rate of 

corporate tax it is also considerate towards reducing the duty on diesel and petrol.  

The credit off take of the banks has come down at the lowest level during the last 

58 years and the advance tax mop up of the government until March has increased 

at a rate of only 6 per cent.  These are alarming signs.  I would like the government 

to  pay  attention  towards  the  policies  which  may  strengthen  the  economy  of  the 

country.    The  Government  has  also  been  trying  to  impose  a  very  draconian 

measure  on  the  people  of  the  country  through  this  Finance  Bill.    There  is  a 

proposal  of  vesting  more  power  into  the  hands  of  income  tax  authorities  with 

regard  to  search  and  seizure.    Through  this  measure  there  is  a  preparation  for 

unleashing the tax terrorism in the country.  Under the sub-section of the 1 A of the 

Section 130 of Income Tax Act it is clearly stated that the Income Tax Officials are 

obliged  to  give  the  reason  before  they  carry  out  search  and  seizure  operation.  

However,  now  the  government  propose  an  amendment  in  this  section  and  this 

requirement has been dropped under it.   Earlier the power of making a subjective 

decision  lied  with  the  Income  Tax  officials  but  some  objective  material  was 

required  for  it.    Now,  it  is  being  said  that  there  is  no  requirement  for  any  such 

material and it has been completely deleted.  This is wrong and against the  tenets 

of  natural  justice  and  such  provision  does  not  exist  anywhere  in  the  world.    Not 

only this, the government propose to implement the proposal retrospectively from 

1962.    I  would  like  the  government  to  pay  attention  towards  this  provision.    I 

would also demand that the government should also fulfill the promise it had made 

for  raising  the  exemption  limit  of  personal  income  tax  upto  Rs.  5  lakhs.    The 

Government  had  also  promised  to  implement  of  the  Swaminathan  Commission.  

Our Government during its ten years tenure had continuously increased the MSP of 

wheat,  bazra  and  paddy  etc.    However,  this  government  has  only  effected  an 

increase of 4 per cent per annum during the last three years in place of an increase 

of 15 per cent.  And still the government talks about the doubling of the income of 

the farmers.  Therefore, it is our demand that the government should implement the 

recommendations  of  the  Swaminathan  Commission.    I  also  demand  that  all  our 

suggestions  related  to  the  Finance  Bill  should  be  accepted  to  give  the  necessary 

fillip  to  the  slow  moving  economy  and  to  create  necessary  employment 

opportunities for the government to fulfill its promise of creating 20 million jobs.   

  

