  It  has  been  seen  across  the  tenures  of  various 

Governments that the route of ordinance is followed whenever Government wants to 

favour the capitalist, industrialists and the elites.  Today the government has brought 

this Bill for setting up the commercial courts.  Its fine but the initial route of ordinance 

by the Government is not justified.  The Government should bring such a Bill which 

could ensure prosperity and progress for the country.  I request that the Government 

should  review  this  Bill  and  send  it  back  to  the  Standing  Committee.    It  may  try  to 

bring it back once the Standing Committee considers it.   

 

THE MINISTER OF LAW AND JUSTICE (SHRI D.V. SADANANDA 

GOWDA) replying said: The purpose of the Bill is to accelerate economic growth, 

improve the international image of the Indian justice delivery system, and the faith 

of  the  investor  world  in  the  legal  culture  of  the  nation.    Commercial  disputes 

require  better  understanding  and  specialization.    Continuously  keeping  some 

judges who are not specialized in the subject also creates delay in the disposal of 

the cases.  Here, in the Bill we have made a provision as to how persons who are 

specialized in commercial matters would be posted and how they are to be trained.  

Commercial  matters  should  be  dealt  with  separately.    This  Bill  does  not  violate 

article  14  of  the  Constitution  and  it  does  not  infringe  upon  any  right  of  poor 

people.  By taking away commercial matters from the normal courts, they can deal 

with other cases quickly and speedy disposal can be brought about.  Recently, we 

passed  a  bill,  the  Delhi  High  court  (Amendment)  Bill,  2015  where  we  have 

enhanced  the  jurisdiction  of  the  District  Court  of  Delhi  from  Rs.20  lakh  to  Rs.  2 

crore.  In Commercial Courts Bill, the original jurisdiction of the Delhi High Court 

is Rs. 2 crore and above.  Once the Delhi High Court (Amendment) Bill is notified, 

automatically all the cases of commercial disputes below the value of Rs. 2 crore 

will  be  transferred  to  the  District  court.    So,  we  thought  it  fit  that  both  these 

legislations should be brought together.  As a result, the Delhi High Court Bill was 

notified and simultaneously, the Commercial Courts Ordinance was promulgated.  

We promulgated this Ordinance to avoid confusion.  A few of our friends said that, 

it ought to have been referred to the Standing Committee again.  But I want to say 

that when the Standing Committee was taking evidence from various stakeholders, 

the  Ordinance  was  brought  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Standing  Committee.    In  its 

Report  everywhere  they  observed  that  this  Ordinance  has  been  promulgated  and 

concurred with it.   Some of the Members mentioned about pecuniary jurisdiction.  

In this regard I want to say that if the Government feels, it can certainly enhance 

the pecuniary jurisdiction of the court.  One of my friends asked as to why appeal 

has  to  be  made  in  the  High  Court  only.    In  this  regard  I  want  to  say  that  where 

there  is  an  original  jurisdiction,  the  Commercial  Bench  will  be  established  there 

and  Commercial  Appellate  Division  also  will  be  there.    So,  automatically  the 

appeal  will  go  from  the  original  side  to  the  appellate  side.    With  regard  to 

pendency of cases this government has taken several initiatives and that is why so 

many  cases  have  been  disposed  of  rapidly  in  various  courts.    About  pendency  in 

the High Courts, as on 31/12/2012, it was 44.34 lakh; and as on 31/12/2014, it had 

come down to 41.53 lakh.  We will computerize all the courts.  About pendency, in 

the District and Subordinate Courts, the pending cases have been reduced by four 

lakh.  I hope that this Bill will have a bigger impact on Judicial reforms. 

The Bill, as amended, was passed. 

 

