  Agriculture  sector  has 

been neglected by all the previous governments for the last 50 years.  So,  farmers 

are compelled to migrate in other sectors from agriculture which is likely to create 

a big problem in the agriculture sector in future.  I would like to make demand to 

the  Government  that  present  Union  Government  should  give  attention  to  the 

agriculture  sector  on  the  lines  of  the  steps  taken  in  Gujarat  in  this  regard.  

Government  has  increased  the  insurance  cover  for  farmers  under  Krishi  Bima 

Yojna which is a commendable step.  It is my request that more attention should be 

given  to  promote  research  and  training  in  the  agriculture  sector.    Similarly, 

students  exchange  programme,  farming  exchange  programmes  should  be 

undertaken  with  the  universities  situated  in  the  developed  countries  excelled  in 

agriculture.    In  addition  to  that,  there  is  a  need  to  set  up  small  water  bodies  for 

water conservation in drought affected states and districts so as to utilize it during 

the  impending  monsoon.    There  is  also  need  to  give  priority  to  the  river 

interlinking project.  It is my request that Government should consider opening of 

a agriculture technology institute on the lines of ITIs. 

 

SHRI P. K. BIJU: Agriculture is the biggest contribution of country's GDP 

with 17 per cent of the total.  But the growth of the agriculture is only a staggering 

2.2 per cent.  But it is a shame on the Government that ex cept sugarcane, all crops 

have been showing a negative growth.  Taxes forgone for corporates have gone up 

by about Rs.30 thousand crores and are put at 2.1 per cent of GDP.  On the other 

side,  the  budget  which  boasts  of  a  farmer's  budget  is  escaping  from  the  sordid 

realities of the Indian agrarian sector.  In the last 20 years, nearly 3,00,000 farmers 

have  ended  their  lives  by  ingesting  pesticides  or  by  hanging  themselves.  

Moreover, the new pricing policy by the Central Government in fertilizer industry 

will have huge  negative  impact  on  the poor  and  marginal  farmers in our  country.  

Similarly,  the  Regional  Comprehensive  Economic  Partnership  (RCEP)  free  trade 

agreement  with  India  and other  15 njations, the agriculture and  plantation sectors 

in Kerala are staring at an uncertain future as they fear that once the pact is signed 

it  will  sound  a  death  knell    for  these  sectors.    Kerala  will  be  one  of  the  state's 

worst-affected  by  the  RCEP  agreement.    There  will  be  a  direct  impact  on  rubber 

and spices and an indirect impact on coconut.  Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana 

and  Kisan  credit  card  have  failed.    The  two  biggest  problems  with  the  design  of 

Pradhan  Mantri  Fasal  schemes  is  that,  first,  even  extremely  poor  farmers  are 

expected to pay the premium.  Second, if the farmer gets trapped in a cycle of debt 

and defaults on his agricultural loan, his policy becomes inoperative.   It is a matter 

of  big  concern  that  out  of  the  total    geographical  area  of  India,  almost  one-sixth 

area with 12 per cent of the population is drought prone.  The amount allocated for 

micro-irrigation projects is a paltry sum.  It is a fact that around 94 per cent of the 

existing  farm  credit  corpus  goes  directly  to  agro-based  industries  and  not  to  the 

farmers.    Rural  credit  is  another  important  sector  neglected by  the  budget.   More 

than  half  of  the  agriculture  households  are  in  debt.      Government  allocation  is 

indeed  the  highest-ever  budgeted  allocation  for  the  MNREGA  Rs.47,499  crores.  

However,  years  of  under-allocation  have  meant  the  scheme  has  run-up  sizeable 

deficits  that  are  rolled  forward  every  year,  making  less  funds  available  for 

commissioning  fresh  works.    India  faces  serious  problems  of  hunger  and  under-

nutrition,  which  is  related,  with  the  performance  of  the  agriculture.    The 

implementation of the National Food Security Act will add the woes of the states 

especially  Kerala  where  rice  is  the  staple  food.    The  Act  will  do  away  with  BPL 

and APL categorization and a large number of families will be left out of the public 

distribution system. 

 

