 People are saying that GST will be 

a  game  changer  and  will  bring  immense  benefit  to  manufacturers,  traders, 

exporters  and  others  but  we  the  Biju  Janata  Dal,  on  this  side,  believe  that  it 

would be illusory to expect too much from it.   The basic advantage comes from 

an  amalgamation  of  nearly  one-and-a-half  dozen  Central  and  State  taxes.    But 

yet,  again,  I  will  like  to  remind  this  House  not  to  expect  too  much  from  GST 

because it all depends on the revenue neutral rate that is fixed.  It is now fixed at 

zero per cent, five per cent, 12 per cent, 18 per cent and 28 per cent and above.  

It  will  be  known  only  after  the  first  year  whether  it  is  revenue  neutral  or  not.  

The  claim  that  the  consumer  will  benefit  due  to  less  tax  burden  is  also  very 

illusory.  Will the prices come down after implementation of this law?  That is 

the  basic  thing  which  our  people  wanted  to  know.   Distinction  between  goods 

and  services  will  not  go  since  a  separate  rate  for  Service  Tax  is  also  being 

introduced.    Under  Clause  171(2),  the  Central  Government  may  constitute  an 

authority  or  empower  existing  authority  constituted  under  any  law  as  an  anti-

profiteering  measure.    But  we  have  a  Competition  law  and  why  should  the 

Government  have  a  provision  in  this  Bill  which  empowers  the  Government  to 

constitute  an  anti-profiteering  authority?    This  is  a  very  retrograde  step.  The 

Competition  Act  of  2002  provides  for  action  against  abuse  of  dominant 

position. 

  No  other  anti-profiteering  law  is  necessary. 

  On  the  GST 

Compensation  Bill,  I  have  moved  two  amendments.  These  are  our  State's 

concerns.  On our persistent raising the issue of compensation this Government 

has  come  up  with  this  Bill.    Still,  there  is  a  little  bit  of  concern.    In  Council, 

Odisha's  case  was  not  considered  in  full  detail.    Odisha  brought  to  the  GST 

Council  the  issue  relating  to  entry  tax  which  will  impact  the  amount  of 

compensation.    Dealers  in  Odisha  had  challenged  the  validity  of  Odisha  Entry 

Tax Act, 1999 in hon. Supreme Court and dealers have been paying only 50 per 

cent of entry tax.  As a result we have been restrained to collect the full amount.  

Therefore, it was proposed by Odisha that such revenue on account of the year 

2015-16 should  either  be  included  in  the base  year  of  2015-16  calculated  or  it 

should  be  excluded  from  calculating  the  actual  revenue  for  the  concerned 

subsequent  year  or  years.    Otherwise,  the  amount  of  compensation  will  be 

unfairly reduced.  However, this proposal was not accepted in the GST Council.  

Hence, justice was not done.  In the near future, we are expected to receive the 

balance  Entry  Tax.    Is  the  Government  going  to  calculate  that?    Therefore,  I 

would appeal  to the Finance  Minister to  take up this  case on our  behalf in  the 

Council.  We had also moved an amendment relating to the clean environment 

cess.  Odisha had also raised this in the Council.  Odisha is a coal-bearing state 

and  a  cess  is  being  collected.    While  the  rates  of  royalty  have  remained 

unrevised, the Union Government has enhanced the levy of clean environment 

cess  to  Rs.  400  per  tonne  in  the  Union  Budget  in  2016-17.    It  has  been 

suggested  by  our  State  that  this  cess  should  be  renamed  as  'Environment  and 

Rehabilitation Cess' and at least 60 per cent of such funds should be shared with 

the  coal-bearing  states.    The  remaining  40  per  cent  of  the  cess  may  go  to  the 

GST  Compensation  Fund.    However,  the  GST  Council  has  decided  that  the 

entire  proceeds  of  clean  environment  cess  would  be  used  for  GST 

compensation.    That  is  our  concern.    As  far  as  the  issue  of  Parliamentary 

oversight is concerned, such oversight collapses once the power under IGST is 

delegated to the States.  This grant of power is without any accountability. This 

is  constitutionally  not  permissible.    There  would  be  multiple  registrations  for 

service  providers  and  that  goes  against  the  idea  of  one  nation,  one  tax.    This 

does not seem to be in the spirit of ease of doing business.  West Bengal has a 

Tenancy Act.  Now the owner of the land will come under GST.  There is a case 

where in a roundabout way  you are bringing agriculturist into tax net.  Shared 

cropping  is  now  going  to  be  taxed  under  this  Bill.    Punjab  had  vehemently 

objected to bringing agriculturist within this Bill and imposing tax on him, but 

this  objection  was not  accepted.   Haryana also objected  to it.    Items  like dairy 

farming  and  poultry  have  not  been  included  in  the  definition  of  'agriculture'.  

What about the land laws of West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, Punjab, Haryana 

and what about their farmers?  I am not going to challenge the decision or the 

wisdom of the Council.  But it will be challenged at some point of time unless a 

consensus  builds  up.    It  is  because  a  large  section  of  society  is  going  to  get 

affected when you are defining the 'agriculturists' and bringing them under GST. 

 

