  GST  Bill  is 

  a 

revolutionary  measures.    There  were  two  Bills,  particularly,  two  measures  which 

the  UPA  initiated.    One  was  the  Constitution  Amendment  Bill  and  another 

revolutionary measure was to replace the outdated Income Tax Act by introducing 

the Direct Taxes Code.  These are the fundamental, innovative changes which were 

proposed.  In fact, that would have added up to 2 to 3 per cent to the GDP.  That 

means, you have a revenue deficit of 3 per cent today. The Income Tax Act itself is 

a  colonial  Act.    It  is  not  a  progressive  legislation.    We  need  to  address  all  these 

questions.    Many  a  time,  bureaucracy,  both  in  the  administration  and  in  the 

taxation sector, are always against the change that has now this country is suffering 

today.    I  am  at  least  happy  that  you  have  moved  forward  on  GST.    As  far  as 

commoners  or  taxpayers  and  market  is  concerned,  this  will  definitely  have  the 

cascading effect.  I think, this is a matter which has a substantive character and this 

needs  to  have  been  discussed  in  the  Standing  Committee.    So,  we  will  have  to 

consider  this  very  seriously.    With  regard  to  2011  Bill,  there  is  a  fundamental 

difference.  The present Bill says that there should be voting.  How will in a federal 

system the voting takes places?  It will affect the States.  This can create a lot of 

confusion  and  complication.    In  our  Bill,  we  have  provided  for  a  mechanism.  

Creation  of  a  mechanism  called  the  Dispute  Settlement  Authority-  that  has  been 

removed.   Instead  of  a  mechanism,  you  have  straight  away  introduced  the  voting 

system.    Pulling  each  other;  complexities  and  ultimately  decision  will  not  be 

objective.  This  should have been discussed in the Standing Committee.  Some of 

the States may be marginalized tomorrow.  Restriction relating to imposition of tax 

on sale or purchase of goods has been deleted by the present Bill.  This will lead to 

a  lot  of  complications  tomorrow.    The  Bill  deletes  the  provision  which  permits 

states to tax entry of goods into a local area.  There is no unanimity even today  by 

the Empowerment Committee.  You just forgotten the 73rd and 74th Constitutional 

amendments.    How  do  you  provide  the  resources  to  the  local  bodies,  the  district 

councils, the municipalities?  It is not a small deviation but it makes a fundamental 

change  in  the  original  Bill  and  also  this  Bill.    It  would  have  been  very  well 

analyzed by the Standing Committee.  After the amendments, which are passed by 

both  the  Houses, it  has  to  get  the  approval  of 50 per  cent  of the  States.   I  do not 

think the Empowered Committee had gone into both positive and negative impact 

of  this  Bill  because  they  are  not  supposed  to  do  that.    I  think  GST  is  being 

practiced in about 140 countries.  We could have borrowed the experience of those 

140  countries.    It  is  not  that  we  are  implementing  GST  for  the  first  time  in  the 

world.  I  think,  there  will  be  a  lot  of  confusions.    Our  own  then  government  also 

failed  on  retrospective  taxation.    Even  after  you  created  a  perception  of    good 

investment climate, things have not improved, because fundamentally government 

has not made changes.  DTC and GST are two important pillars for a game changer 

in  this  country.    If  you  forego  that,  perhaps  you  will  have  to  regret  tomorrow.  

Government  will  have  to  ensure  whether  GST  is  an  improvement  over  VAT.  

There are 101 counts which I can demonstrate to the hon. Finance Minister, and it 

is a fit case to be sent to the Standing Committee.  India should be in the frontline 

in the superb  countries, some  of  these taxation  measures  will be the  basic things.  

With signing of free trade agreements, need for nationwide simple and transparent 

system of taxation is further enhanced.  I welcome GST but not this Bill.   

 

