  I rise to oppose this Bill.  In order to 

replace  the  Ordinance  a  new  Bill  is  introduced  in  this  House  during  this  Winter 

Session when an identical Bill is still pending in the Rajya Sabha and the matter is 

under  the  scrutiny  of  the  Standing  Committee.    Coming  to  this  Bill,  why  I  am 

opposing this Bill is, all the enactments or the legislation coming in this House is 

for ease of doing business.  Almost all the legislation which is being aggressively 

pursued by this Government is for ease of doing business and not for the common 

downtrodden  people  of  this  country.    Can  you  suggest  any  Bill  which  is  for  the 

common  people  of  this  country?    The  indirect  way  by  which  the  Bill  is  being 

pushed through or bulldozed through the Lok Sabha with the huge majority of the 

Government is my first objection.  The Executive is given ample power to define 

what is a commercial dispute.  Even the Parliament is not having the authority to 

define the crux of the legislation.  The same things is there for specified value also.  

Chapter V of the Bill deals with the transfer of pending suits and application under 

the Arbitration Act to the commercial courts.  It is also contradictory.  There is no 

definition  as  far  as  the  commercial  courts,  or  the  commercial  Divisions  or  the 

Commercial Appellate Tribunals are concerned.  The Arbitration and Conciliation 

Bill  of  2015  is  silent  about  the  definition  of  commercial  dispute.    Even  this  Act 

also  is  silent  about  the  arbitration  proceedings.    What  mechanism  will  be 

applicable in a case where the specified value is more than Rs. One crore which is 

also a commercial dispute.  I would like to know whether such a case will be decided 

by  the  High  Court  as  per  the  original  jurisdiction  envisaged  in  the  Arbitration  and 

Conciliation  Actor  or  it  will  be  done  by  the  Commercial  Division.    The  legislation 

violates article 14 of the Constitution because through this legislative we are creating 

a classification like poor vs. rich.  That classification is not a reasonable classification.  

This means that a poor man will have a poor treatment and the rich will have a better 

treatment.    This  has  to  be  taken  care  of  as  far  as  poor  and  common  people  are 

concerned.  There is haste and hurry so as to pass this Bill and this itself means that it 

is not for the common people of the country and it is only for a particular class of the 

society.  So, I strong oppose this Bill. 

 

