  IIMs  are  elite  institutions  of 

our  country.    Only  the  most  meritorious  students  finally  make  into  these 

institutions.    Additionally,  the  high  fees  charged  at  IIMs  which  is  between  Rs.  9 

lakh and Rs. 20 lakh, also prevent several students from less privileged background 

from  taking  admission  to  these  institutions.    There  are  currently  20  IIMs  across 

India.  Based on reports IIMs put together have about only 8000 seats.  Compared 

to this, there are about 5500 other business schools that offer MBA degrees.  While 

I  commend  the  Government's  effort  to  further  improve  the  standard  of  education 

and research at IIMs, I also ask whether the Government is aware of the fate of the 

other five lakh non-IIM MBA degree holders.  Autonomous status and other things 

which are going to be implemented through the Bill are very good.  But what about 

others?    According to  reports, beside  the 8000  IIM  graduates, only  35,000  of  the 

five lakh MBA graduates get jobs.  Most of these jobs offer a salary of hardly Rs. 

10,000 per month.  So, I urge the Government to take steps to improve the standard 

of these other B-schools as well as secure the future of such students.  Moreover, 

increased  fee  in  business  schools  and  unavailability  of  placements  are  the  two 

major  reasons  for  less  number  of  candidates  applying  for  the  Common  Aptitude 

Test (CAT).  Every year, there is a drop in the number of candidates applying for 

CAT.  One of the main reasons behind this drop is that a lot of students now prefer 

foreign universities over IIMs.  In foreign universities, there is a possibility and a 

chance  to  a  scholarship  but  after  this  new  Bill  gets  enacted,  will  there  be  a 

provision  of  scholarship  in  these  institutions?    I  would  also  like  to  point  out  that 

certain  recommendations  of  Expert  Committees  formed  by  Parliament  have  not 

been addressed to in the Bill.  I ask the Government for a response regarding as to 

why two specific recommendations pertaining to Board autonomy in pay fixation 

and  creation  of  Standing  Committee  for  Management  were  not  considered  and 

whether  they  would  be  considered  and  implemented  in  future  or  not.    I  want  to 

draw  your  kind  attention  to  IIM,  Sambalpur.    IIM,  Sambalpur  is  running  from  a 

rented  building.    My  request  to  the  Government  is  to  clear  the  stand  of  the 

Government with regard to signing of the MoU in this regard. 

 

