    Originally  the  Benami  Transactions  (Prohibition)  Act  was  enacted  in 

1988 and had only nine Sections and any person who wishes to acquire an asset or 

a  property  must  do  it  in  his  own  name,  with  his  money.    If  he  acquires  it  in  the 

name of somebody else, then, it is deemed to be a benami property.  Even though 

two judgements of the Supreme Court came, this law has not been updated and put 

into effect.  Benami transactions are prohibited and the State will have the power to 

acquire  the  benami  property  and  that  the  person  who  enters  into  this  benami 

transaction is  liable  to be prosecuted.  When  this law  was  framed, it  was thought 

that  everything  else  would  take  place  by  virtue  of  rules.    This  Act  had  to  be 

operationalised  through  rules,  and  the  rules  were  never  framed.    The  reason  why 

we want to amend the 1988 Bill because it was considered necessary that the old 

law  be  allowed  to  remain,  and  the  new  amendments  be  inserted  into  the  old  law 

itself.    The  amendment  Bill  has  71  Sections  because  we  want  the  Bill  to  be 

operationalised from 1988 onwards.  The Standing Committee among others gave 

a  recommendation  to  lay  down  as  to  what  are  the  exceptions  to  the  benami 

principles.  One exception which the law provided for was, properties held within 

an Undivided Hindu Family.  The second amendment was in the event of a Trust, 

Trustee can hold the property as a fiduciary of the principal Trust.  So, those would 

be exempted. We also considered the issue of properties acquired through power of 

attorney  and  that  key  amendment  has  been  accepted  by  the  Government.    The 

principal  object  behind  this  Bill  is  to  discourage  benami  transactions.    It  is 

predominantly an anti-black money measure that any transaction which is benami 

is  illegal  and  the  property  is  liable  to  be  confiscated.    I  commend  this  Bill  for 

discussion and acceptance of the hon. House.   

 

SHRI  S.P.  MUDDAHANUME  GOWDA 

initiating  said:  Benami 

transactions  are  detrimental  to  the  interest  of  this  nation  and  benami  transactions 

constitute  a  serious  offence  against  the  State  also.    So,  prohibition  is  needed  and 

prevention  is  also  required  equally.    We  have  been  hearing  much  about  Indian 

Black Money in foreign countries.  But to our surprise, we have got enormous and 

sufficient black money on our Indian oil itself.  The easiest way of keeping the ill-

gotten  money  is  to  invest  it  in  landed  properties.    We  have  been  seeing  that 

throughout the country a lot of valuable, prime properties are being purchased by 

some people in the name of somebody else.  In our country, a lot of lands, which 

are vacant and barren, have been converted into banks of this black money.  Black 

money is invested to keep it safe and to escape from the clutches of law.  This law 

is not only detrimental to the economy of this country but it is also detrimental to 

the  food  production  of  this  country.    In  Karnataka,  a  non-agriculturist  or  a 

company cannot purchase or own agricultural land to prevent black money holders 

from investing this money in agricultural lands.  If the Aadhaar number the PAN 

and  the  bank  account  number  is  linked  it  will  stop  generation  of  black  money.  

Definitely people are prepared to come and inform the concerned authorities about 

benami transactions.  But, what is the law the government has enacted in this Bill 

to protect the interest of the whistle blowers?  I would like to know how an offence 

of serious nature can be treated as a non-cognizable offence.  Principles of natural 

justice  require  and  demand  a  person  should  be  given  some  legal  assistance.    But 

the  government  has  not  mentioned  anything  about  appearance  before  the 

adjudicating  authority.    This  authorities  and  jurisdiction  and  procedural  aspect 

appear to be too high, too heavy and too lengthy.  The Government have provided 

a provision for this appellate tribunal.  The Government have made provision to re-

introduce    the  case  here  also  in  the  Appellate  Tribunal.    That  means  the  original 

jurisdiction  still  exists  before  the  Appellate  Tribunal  which  is  not  correct.   In  the 

Appellate Tribunal also, you have not fixed any time limit.  The seriousness of the 

whole  issue,  the  concern  of  the  Government  to  deal  with  these  cases  very 

stringently, I think that will be taken away the way in which the provision is being 

made  to  drag  the  case  for  years  together.    That  should  not  happen.    The 

Parliamentary  Standing  Committee  has  recommended  about  known  source  of 

income.  That should not be there.  It is only known sources.  That should be there.  

Sources are different from sources of income.  'Known sources' are the right words.  

In  spite  of  the  recommendation  of  the  Parliamentary  Standing  Committee,  that 

amendment has not been made.  That is why, that should be seriously looked into.   

 

