  In  this  Taxation  Laws  (Amendment)  Bill,  three  minor  provisions  are 

intended  to  be  altered.    As  far  as  marble  and  granite  are  concerned,  they  are 

available  domestically  and  are  also  imported  in  large  quantities.    The  maximum 

bound rate of Customs Duty under the Customs Tariff Act is 10 per cent as today.  

Now some element of protection to domestic industry was required.  So, the bound 

rate that is the roof is intended to be raised from 10 to 40 per cent.  The second and 

third amendments are to the Income Tax Act.  These two amendments are urgently 

required for the following reason.  The VSNL was a public sector company. It was 

privatized when the telecom opening up took place and in the year 2002 as a part 

of privatization it was taken over by one of the Tata Group of companies.  At the 

time when it was privatized, VSNL had a large amount of surplus land.  One of the 

covenants of the privatization was that the land would be hived off into a separate 

entity,  which  it  has  been,  and  thereafter  the  land  would  be  divided  between  the 

private shareholders and approximately 52 per cent will come to the Government.  

This  land  has  to  come  to  the  Government  and  this  land  can  be  used  by  the 

Government  for  Government  housing  and  various  other  activities  which  are  in 

larger  public  interest.      This  transaction  under  the  present  Income  Tax  law  will 

attract Capital Gains Tax and that will entirely add on to the cost.  This transaction 

is sought to be exempted by putting in an explanation in the Income Tax Act.  The 

third  limb  of  the  change  is  in  relation  to  the  textile  or  apparel  sector.    We  need 

economic  development  which  generates  job. One of the provisions in the  Income 

Tax Act is that if you generate employment for a minimum of 240 days in a year, 

there are certain tax rebates which you are entitled to.  India is a large exporter of 

summer  garments.    In  the  winter  clothing,  we  are  still  not  able  to  produce  the 

apparel at a big stage.  Therefore, most of the employment generation companies 

are  not  able  to  touch  240  days.    Recently,  the  Cabinet  had  approved  a  whole 

package of incentives for the textile industry in order to boost employment and one 

of the covenants of that was that in relation to the textile or apparel industry, these 

240  days  should  read  150  days.  It  means  that  if  they  generate  employment  upto 

150  days,  the  apparel  industry  would  also  be  entitled  to  the  same  tax  incentives.  

So,  in  the  case  of  apparel  industry,  this  exception  is  sought  to  be  made  in  the 

Income Tax Act. 

 

