  The  hon.  Minister 

has just pointed out that there are three basic features in this particular amendment 

which has been brought in.  The first one relates to the extension of jurisdiction of 

collection  of  data  to  the  State  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir  as  regards  to  the  articles 

contained  in  the  Union  List  and  the  Concurrent  List.    We  do  not  have  any 

objection  regarding  this  provision.  But  I  hope  that  you  have  taken  everyone  on 

board.  The  second  one  relates  to  the  provisions  of  appointing  nodal  officers  for 

better collection of data.  We do not have any objection to this provision also.  But 

we are of the opinion that there was no need to bring legislation in the Parliament 

for  this  purpose.    This  could  have  been  done  through  delegated  legislation  also.  

The  third  most  important  feature of this Bill, which  you  call enabling clause, we 

are  concerned  about  it.    It  was  stated  that  the  data  collected  would  be  used  for 

statistical  purpose.    But  you  have  changed  the  language.    In  the  advertisements 

shown on television channels, it is mentioned that the data collected would be kept 

confidential.  There  is  provision  for  penalty  and  six  month  imprisonment  for 

providing  false  information.   We  are  of  the  opinion  that  people  have  the  right  to 

know about the purpose for which the data is being collected.  The matter is under 

consideration  in  the  Supreme  Court  and  it  has  to  decide  whether  the  right  to 

privacy of data is a fundamental right or not.  But I think the House should answer 

this question before the Supreme Court pronounces any decision in this matter.  If 

we  study  the  international  practices  in  this  regard,  we  find  that  all  the  countries 

across  the  world  have  brought  data  privacy  laws  in  their  respective  countries 

during  the  last  five  to  ten  years.    But  our  country  do  not  have  any  such  law,  so 

these questions have come up.  You should clarify about the amendments brought 

in the third part as to by whom it has been prescribed and the rules proposed to be 

made under it.  The second point is about NSSO.  We should discuss in the House 

about  the  manner  in  which  improvement  could  be  made  in  the  surveys  being 

conducted by NSSO.  Almost all the surveys are done by NSSO once in five years.  

The hon. Minister for Agriculture had raised the issue that agricultural surveys are 

being  done  once  in  ten  years.    This  period  should  be  less.    Because  during  ten 

years  period  a  number  of  budgets  are  presented  and  policies  are  changed.    An 

economist  makes  assessment  of  the  economic  policies  of  the  country  on  three 

points  -  rate  of  growth,  rate  of  inflation  and  unemployment  rate.    Economic 

policies of the country are made keeping in view these points.   NSSO needs to be 

revamped. 

 

