    The  bureau  of  Indian  Standards  Bill, 

2015 will replace the existing Bureau of Indian Standards Act, 1986. Basically, it 

is  a  classic  case  of  old  wine  in  anew  bottle.  The  new  measures  are  basically 

repackaging  of  old  measures.  This  Bill  proposes  to  establish  Bureau  of  Indian 

Standards  as  a  national  standardization  body  called  'National  Standard  Bureau'. 

The Bill includes goods, services, systems besides articles and processes under the 

standardization  regime.    It  is  a  very  good  initiative.    As  certain  new  steps  have 

been suggested in the proposed Bill, the success of implementation of this Bill will 

depend on the training in the processes, procedures mentioned in this new Bill for 

standardization.  It is said that the devil is in detail ; so the same is true in this case 

also.  The  rules  of  the  Bill  and  it's  called  actual  implementation  will  decide  the 

efficacy of this Act.  The provision of 'Self Declaration of Conformity' (SDOC) has 

been introduced to promote 'ease of doing business'.  It is a very new initiative and 

I  welcome  it  but  it  does  not  provide  any  assurance  as  to  how  self  declaration 

should be made, how users of this Act will acquire knowledge, how malpractices 

will be curbed, etc.  The  Government  should  take  care of this. The  services  have 

not  been  given  its  due  importance  in  this  Bill.  In  this  regard,  much  needs  to  be 

done as services have to be rendered.  I would also like to add on more thing which 

other  Hon'ble  Members  have  also  spoken  about  that  it  should  be  an  independent 

agency  absolutely  separate  from  the  Government's  influence,  the  bureaucratic 

influence.  

 

*SHRI  CHARANJEET  SINGH    RORI:    I  thank  the  Hon.  Minister  for 

piloting this historic bill in this august House.  It will go a long way in helping the 

common  man.    This  bill  will  definitely  check  the  menace  of  spurious  products.  

Whenever  a  company  launches  a  product,  spurious  and  counterfeit  copies  of  that 

product  become  readily  available  in  the  market.    The  common  man  has  to  suffer 

due  to  adulterated  or  fake  stuff.    There  are  no  hallmarks  or  certification.    So,  I 

thank the Hon. Minister for bringing this important bill.  It will certainly rein the 

menace  of  fake  or  adulterated  stuff.    Last  year,  an  insecticide  was  used  by  the 

farmers of Punjab and Haryana.  Even after spraying the insecticide in the field full 

of crop, we could not get rid of the insect that was damaging the crop.  The farmers 

had to suffer due to the useless insecticide.  The Haryana Government did not take 

any  action  against  the  firm  that  had  sold  the  ineffective  insecticide.    Even  the 

                                           
* Original in Punjabi 

hapless farmers were not compensated for their financial loss.  It is a sad state of 

affairs.   But  I think that  bill  will  mitigate the  suffering  of  common  man.   I  hope, 

the law will implemented properly.   

 

