  This  Bill  seeks  to  replace  the  earlier  Act 

enacted  in  the  year  2000.    Whether  this  Bill  is  an  agreement  with  the  UN 

Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  in  a  moot  question.    The  UN  Convention 

requires  all  signatory  countries  to  treat  every  child  under  the  age  of  18  years  as 

equal.  However, the Government is going ahead to treat sixteen year old juveniles 

as  adults  if  they  are  found  guilty  of  very  serious  offences  like  murder,  rape  and 

drug offences.  I wish the penalties are in proportion to the gravity of the offence.  

Some  people  point  out  that  the  principles  of  Articles  14  and  15(3)  have  been 

violated.  So, such critics point out that this is in violation of Article 20(1) of the 

Constitution.    At  a  later  date,  the  same  person  may  face  a  penalty  that  is  higher 

than  what  would  be  applicable  to  him  at  the  time  of  commission  of  the  serious 

offence. This Bill is an agitated reaction to an unfortunate incident taken place in 

the national capital.  We have Cradle Baby Scheme for abandoned children so that 

they are taken proper care.  This is a great social concern.  Dropout rate in schools 

in our  State has  come  down because of nutritious noon  meal  scheme  and various 

other incentives like free text-books, cycles, uniforms, computers  and scholarship 

for  higher  education.    Urging  upon  the  Government  to  provide  right  kind  of 

atmosphere for children to grow as better  citizens by way of training and placing 

right kind of people in the Protection Homes and Child Care Hostels. 

 

DR.  KAKOLI  GHOSH  DASTIDAR:  The  Bill permits  juveniles  between 

the  ages  of  16  and  18  years  to be tried  as  adults  for  heinous offences.   There  are 

arguments that the current law does not act as a deterrent for juveniles committing 

heinous  crimes.    Another  view  is  that  a  reformative  approach  will  reduce 

likelihood of repeating offences.  India has ratified the United Nations Convention 

on  the  Rights  of  the  Child.    It  requires  treating  every  child  under  the  age  of  18 

years  as  equal.    The  provision  of  trying  a  juvenile  as  an  adult  contravenes  this 

Convention also. The National Crime Records Bureau shows that the percentage of 

juvenile crimes has gone up in the recent past and it has increased from 1 cent to 

1.2  per  cent  from  2003  to  2013.    So,  here  comes  the  necessity  of  giving  this  a 

serious  thought.    I  would  like  to  mention  here  that  the  police  who  are  going  to 

investigate  or  the  Boards  that  are  going  to  look  into  these  matters  should  have 

women.    I  would  also  think  that  we  should  have  children  psychiatrists  in  this 

Board, who should look into the mental capacity of children.  In this country, we 

have so many families who live below poverty line.  A Child who is lifting be it a 

food article or a toy out of dire shortage of funds in his house, then I should think 

that  the  child  is  not  to  be  blamed.    It  is  the  society  or  the  State,  which  has  to  be 

blamed;  and 

the  corrective  measures  have 

to  be 

taken  by 

the  family, 

neighbourhood and the State.  So, this child-friendly move that has been taken up 

by the hon. Minister is appreciated.  Besides we should try to lift the social status 

of 

these  children 

through  education  and  supplying 

them  food 

through 

Governments.  We are doing it in our state of West Bengal.  But there should be 

other  facilities  given  to  the  children  besides  education.    The  children  should  be 

exposed to recreational facilities. The children should be given vocational training.  

Their childhood should be our concern. We should see that the child is not carried 

away due to poverty to commit such a crime, which might lead to the child being 

named as a criminal. 

 

