  The  GST  is  definitely  a  progressive  tax  regime 

and everybody is enthusiastically waiting for it.  We have been talking about 'One 

Tax  One  Nation'.    But,  I  would  like  to  ask  as  to  why  not  'one  administration'.  

Instead of having two administrations, it is time to have a  federal GST service on 

the lines of the All India Services.  The entire success of GST depends on the GST 

network.  This is entirely dependent on the software.  Hence, I would like to know 

as  to  what  is  the  preparedness  of  the  Government  to  launch  the  software  and 

hardware.    While  changing  the  name  of  Central  Board  of  Excise  and  Customs  to 

the  Central  Board  of  Indirect  Taxes  and  Customs  an  arbitrary  decision  regarding 

tax base of above Rs. 1.5 crore and below 1.5 crore has been taken.  A lot of tax 

base  has  been  shifted  to  the  States.    I  feel  the  CBEC  officers  who  are  recruited 

through UPSC are on par with IAS, IFS and IPS in competence but they are now 

rendered unemployed or rather under-employed.  So, this will be a callous misuse 

of manpower.  Another interesting point is regarding vigilance.  CBI and CVC will 

have  jurisdiction  if  any  malpractice  is  perpetrated.    But,  the  State  Governments 

will resist the entry of the CBI and CVC into their jurisdiction.  If we take care of 

human,  manpower,  one  tax  one  nation,  one  administration,  some  vigilance 

mechanism,  GST  preparedness,  arbitrariness  of  the  tax  base  of  Rs.  1.5  crore 

between  the  Centre  and  States,  I  feel  this  will  be  a  smooth  unfolding  in  future.  

Otherwise,  unnecessary  problems  will  be  created  between  the  Centre  and  States 

which  we  would  not  be  able  to  solve  very  easily.    Even  the  GST  Council  also 

cannot address all these problems.   

 

DR.  A.  SAMPATH:  As  regards  the  Taxation  Laws  (Amendment)  Bill, 

2017, first I would be referring to the last pages of the Bill and then I will come to 

the initial pages.  I have certain reservations about the delegation of powers as it is 

not of a normal character.  The delegated powers are unchecked powers and if this 

august  House  does  not  take  cognizance  of  the  matter,  then  it  will  be  a  Financial 

Frankenstein.    Along  with  other states  my  State  of  Kerala  is  also  suffering  in  the 

name of international treaties.  If we are talking about cooperative federalism, the 

Government  of  India  should  take  into  confidence  all  the  State  Governments.  

Having  compared  the  international  prices  of  crude  oil  to  the  prices  of  domestic 

LPG cylinder, the consumers are bound to feel that they are being pick-pocketed.  

Apart  from  addressing  to  these  issues  the  Government  of  India  should  take 

initiatives to fill up around one million vacancies including two lakhs of vacancies 

in the Railways also.  If the industries are having a free say and if the cess levied 

on the consumption of water is being withdrawn, the people will be at the mercy of 

the corporates.  Moreover, Magic should be included in the list of performing arts 

and tax-exemption should also be given to it.  Lastly, I would beg the Government 

to give adequate loans to the traditional sector for their sustenance and livelihood. 

 

