  Kerala  is  identified  as  one  of  the  world's 

twenty-five  biodiversity  hotspots.    Kerala  is  an  agrarian  economy.    But  there  has 

been a continuous shift in the cropping pattern from food crops to cash crops.  The 

trends  in  the  agricultural  income  in  the  state  for  the  last  eight  years  also  show 

inconsistency in growth.  The declining profitability, uneconomic size of holdings, 

large scale conversion of agricultural lands for non-agricultural uses has impaired 

the development of agricultural sector in the state.  Coconut production is facing a 

decline  due  to  root  wilt  disease.    This  needs  massive  re-plantation  programme.  

The government should announce a scheme to ensure production and distribution 

of  Tender  Coconut  Water  replacing  Coca  Cola  and  Pepsi  as  a  soft  drink  and  be 

made  a  National  Soft  Drink.    The  Government  should  give  more  emphasis  for 

usage of coir as well as explore international markets for its export.  The Coconut 

Board should be given financial allocations to cater to the development of coconut.  

The  NAFED,  which  is  the  nodal  agency  for  procurement  of  raw  coconut  should, 

most  often  decline  to  intervene  resulting  in  loss  to  the  coconut  farmers.    The 

NAFED  should be directed to be  active  in  its  responsibilities.  With  too  much  of 

usage  of  fertilizers  for  farming,  the  produces  are  also  getting  contaminated.  

Therefore,  the  Government  should  take  necessary  steps  to  propagate  as  well  as 

provide organic manure for farming.  The Fishing is a major source of income of 

Kerala.  However, the fishing sector is not adequately technology driven and needs 

major  over  hauling  of  the  fishing  industry.    The  fishing  community  is  under 

privileged,  therefore  economic  assistance  during  non  fishing  period  should  be 

introduced  for  them.    Provisions  prevailing  for  Adivasis  for  housing  should  be 

considered for the fishermen community also.   

 

