  My  serious  objection  to  the 

Finance  Bill,  2017  is  under  Article  110, and  117  and  rule  219(1)  of  the  Rules  of 

Procedure  and  Conduct  of  Business  in  Lok  Sabha.    Once  we  have  agitated  this 

matter in detail during the introduction of the Finance Bill, 2015.  I am forced to 

repeat the arguments once again.   

Rule 219(1) is distinct and separate and it is 

only to give effect to the finance proposals for the year or for the following year, 

that is, for a particular period, and not of a permanent nature.  Article 110(1) of the 

Constitution of India also elaborately discusses.  For the purposes of this Chapter, a 

Bill shall be deemed to be a Money Bill if it contains only provisions dealing with 

all  or  any  of  the  following  matters  Clauses  (a)  to  (f),  which  deals  with  taxation 

proposals, recovery of money, regulation of the borrowing of money, custody with 

the  Consolidated  Fund  and  the  Contingency  Fund  of  India,  and  appropriation  of 

money under the Consolidated Fund of India and so on.  How an issuance of the 

electoral  rolls  fall  within  the  taxation  proposals  over  matters  incidental  to  the 

taxation proposal?  That is the question which I would like to know.  Just now we 

have  received  the  list  of  amendments.    40  existing  Acts  are  proposed  to  be 

amended by means of this Finance Bill. When the original Bill was presented on 1st 

February,  2017,  only  8  to  10  Acts  were  proposed  to  be  amended.    These 

amendments are pushed through this House by suspending Rule 80(i) of the Rules 

of  Procedure  and  Conduct  of  Business  in  Lok  Sabha.    I  would  like  to  know 

whether it is right because Rule 80(i) is very specific and says that an amendment 

should  be  related  to  the  matter  which  is  connected  with  the  facts  of  the  original 

Bill.  Unfortunately these things are not connected with the original Bill and these 

amendments are now being pushed through or they are being bulldozed just a few 

minutes before.  There is the ruling which was given in the year 1956 and in 1970 

also the same ruling was given.  Madam you also gave ruling on 30.4.2015.  This 

was the ruling, which you had given when the Finance Bill of 2015 was brought in 

this House when a point of order had been raised by myself and Prof. Saugata Roy.  

My point is that it is absolutely a backdoor legislation.  It cannot be allowed under 

the pretext of a Finance Bill.  I strongly oppose the move to suspend the Rules of 

Procedure  so  as  to  bring  very  cardinal  structural  amendments  to  the  existing  30 

Acts.  It is the legitimate, democratic and supreme right of the Parliament, which is 

being taken away.  So, I strongly oppose moving of this Bill for consideration and 

passing.  I am seeking a ruling from you once again on this aspect.   

  

