  The  majority  of  tax  payers  are  senior 

citizens in the income slab of Rs. 5 to 10 lakh.  The rate of income tax is 20 per 

cent  in  this  slab.    This  should  be  reduced.    A  large  number  of  notices  were  sent 

after  demonetization.    I  want  to  know  from  the  hon.  Minister  about  the  total 

number of notices sent after demonetization and the number of notices cleared out 

of them and the time by which the pending notices are likely to be cleared because 

there  is  acute  shortage  of  manpower in our  income  tax department.   The  revenue 

secretary of the government himself was of the view that by slashing the corporate 

tax from 30 % to 25 % the government is likely to incur a loss of about Rs. 95,000 

crore  annually  as  a  result.    How  the  government  is  going  to  make  up  this  loss.  

When we talk of waiving of farmers loan then the hon. Minister himself gives in 

writing  that  they  asked  the  RBI  about  the  same  but  the  RBI  is  not  in  favour  of 

waiving of these loans.  The government says that after the GST comes in force, a 

major portion of the revenue receives from it would be provided to the states who 

are likely to suffer losses as a result.  Today, Haryana has a debt burden of more 

than  Rs.  80,000  crore  on  it.    Whether  the  government  would  provide  any 

alternative benefit to our state.  No funds has been provided in the budget for the 

construction of the Sutlej-Yamuna link.  Whereas the Supreme Court has given a 

ruling  that  the  central  government  should  complete  its  construction  work.  

Therefore,  the  government  should  provide  funds  in  the  budget  so  that  the 

construction work completes by the end of 2017.  The credit card limit at the rate 

of 4 per cent is Rs. 3 lakh.  The government should increase it to Rs. 3 lakh without 

collateral guarantee and Rs. 8 lakh at the rate of 4 per cent in order to strengthen 

the economic condition of our farmers. 

 

SHRIMATI HEMAMALINI:  The efforts which our government has been 

making to prevent tax evasion and black money would be before us in the coming 

years.    The  public  of  entire  country  has  extended  their  support  to  the 

demonetization move of the government.  The Digital financial transaction is fast 

becoming  the  part  of  the  life  of  our  people.    So  far  1.91crore  people  have 

downloaded  the  BHIM  app  for  the  purpose.    I  am  a  member  of  Parliament  from 

Mathura.  I want special fund for the development of my constituency.  Mathura is 

the city of Lord Krishna.  Devotees from within the country and abroad visit there 

in large numbers.   The  ambience  around Mathura  city  is not very  pleasing so  we 

need  funds  for  beautification  of  the  city.    Places  like  84  kosh  parikrama  and 

goverdhana parikrama are there.  We need to beautify these places so that people 

could  feel  the  touch  of  spirituality  there  and  for  this  we  need  a  huge  amount  of 

money.  We need to set up solid waste management plants in the religious cities to 

keep them neat and clean.  We need to provide wifi facility in some major temples 

complexes  there.    There  should  be  deployment  of  religious  tourism  police  force 

there  besides  the  normal  police  force.    I  want  to  set  up  a  Krishna  theme  park  in 

Mathura  and  for  this  I  need  funds  and  I  hope  that  the  Finance  Ministry  would 

provide  me  the  same  for  the  purpose.    We  need  set  up  a  Kendriya  Vidyalaya  in 

Mathura for the education of girl child.  A large number of personnel paramilitary 

forces like BSF and CRPF are posted in Mathura.  I, therefore, demand for setting 

up  three  Kendriya  Vidyalayas  in  Mathura  for  the  children  of  these  people.  

Similarly, we need to set up primary health centres in each and every village there.  

The unemployment problem is very alarming in Mathura.  So, there is a need to set 

up  non-polluting  industries  there.    The  condition  of  roads  and  power  is  also  not 

very satisfactory so I need funds to improve the situation.  Similarly, fund should 

also be provided for the cleansing  of the river Yamuna. The agricultural sector is 

very important for the nation's growth.  I would request the hon. Finance Minister 

to re-visit the definition of agricultural income under the Income Tax Act, as a few 

agricultural  activities  are  not  covered  under  this  definition.    I  belong  to  film 

industry.    It  gives  me  immense  pleasure  to  know  that  the  Bollywood  is  doing  so 

well.    All  over  the  world,  people  are  so  crazy  about  our  Hindi  films  as  also  the 

artists.  It is so wonderful to know that the Government also earns crores of rupees 

from this industry.  But there are some sad scenarios also.  We need to think about 

those  actors  who  have  lost  their  stardom.    I  am  talking  about  technicians  like 

camera  man,  light  man,  sound  assistant,  dress  assistant,  etc.    who  work  for  24 

hours  behind  the  camera.    Their  work-life  is  very  limited.    These  people  need 

social  security  and  benefits  in  the  form  of  Government  aid  to  help  them  so  that 

they  can  live  with dignity.   So, I  would request the  Government  to do  something 

about  it.    My  humble  suggestion  is  that  the  Government  should  give  the  film 

industry, the status of industry.  Lastly, I want to talk about the performing artists.  

These performing artists are actually the brand ambassadors of our Indian Art and 

culture worldwide.  But these treasurers of our culture receive no benefit from the 

Government for their dedication towards spreading art and culture.  I would once 

again  humbly  request  the  Government  not  to  levy  taxes  on  the  income  of  these 

performing  artists  with  the  kind  of  taxes  that  are  levied  on  other  business  and 

financial  institutions.   These  artists  live  a  very  humble  life  and  their  earnings  are 

not as high as the Bollywood artists.  So, for them art is just a Sadhana.  

 

