 The Ministry of Defence is one of the most 

important ministries.  We feel secured due to our forces only.  We have faced four 

wars  till  now.    Pakistan  Army  often  violates  the  ceasefire.    Recently,  our  Army 

conducted a surgical strike.  Still the ceasefire violations from  Pakistan side have 

not stopped.  State-of-the-art equipment should be provided to the Army and NCC 

in colleges made compulsory.   Due care of food served to the soldiers should be 

taken.    Complaints  in  this  regard  are  coming  these  days  but  they  are  suppressed.  

Working conditions of the soldiers should be better.  Funds should be provided for 

construction of roads along Indo-China border.  Our country is surrounded by the 

sea  on  three  sides.    Mumbai  attack  was  executed  through  sea  route.    It  was  then 

decided that speed boats would be made available, posts will be established at the 

every  20-25 km, good  weapons  would be  provided  but  unfortunately  nothing  has 

been  done.    Considering  our  neighbour,  we  have  to  be  more  careful  towards  our 

defence.   

 

*DR. A. SAMPATH: India has the fourth largest army in the world which is 

deployed  in  the  most  difficult  terrains.    We  should  be  grateful  to  them.    The 

Government  is  planning  to  divest  26  per  cent  share  of  BEML.    I  request  the 

Government  to  reconsider  the  move  to  sell  of  the  shares  of  BEML.    The 

Government  should  make  more  investment  in  the  defence  sector.    We  should 

promote  indigenous  production  of  arms.    There  is  a  move  to  privatize  the  arm 

production, which will attract commission agents and promote illegal money.  The 

NATO camp in Diego Garcia, is kidnapping our traditional fishermen and they ask 

for ransom from us.  The soldiers face a lot of problems.  There is a need to fill up 

the vacancies in the Indian Army.  Representation of women should be increased 

in  the  armed  forces.      The  Government  should  take  a  more  humanistic  approach 

towards serving and retired defence personnel.  The Armed Forces Special Power 

Act  should  be  relaxed  wherever  be  it  possible  Jammu  and  Kashmir  or  the  North 

eastern  states.    Our  paramilitary  forces  too  work  in  tough  terrain  and  inclement 

weather  but  there  is  no  parity  between  army  and  other  forces.    The  Government 

should  do  justice  to  our  para-military  personnel.    In  civil  services,  we  have  a 

system  of  non  functioned  up-gradation.    But  this  opportunity  is  not  given  to  the 

armed forces personnel.  This anomaly should be rectified.  We have declared One 

Rank, One Pension Scheme.  The defence budget should not be used for importing 

                                                           
* Original in Malayalam 

armaments  but  for  research  and  making  indigenous  arms  that  can  strengthen  and 

modernize our force.  

 

