  The Bill has only one objective and that is to 

increase  the  period  for  teachers  to  acquire  prescribed  qualification  by  four  more 

years  or  up  to  March,  2019.    The  Bill  is  necessary  because  from  March,  2015, 

teachers are barred from getting requisite qualification in view of the deadline and, 

secondly,  the  State  Governments  were  not  able  to  continue  the  process  of 

imparting training to untrained teachers because of legislative hurdle. The current 

form  or  the  system  of  education  was  dev  eloped  in  the  wake  of  the  Industrial 

Revolution  in  the  early  1800.    The  concept  of  free  and  universal  education  and 

later  mandatory  education  was  the  result  of  the  needs of  this  era.   Now,  with  the 

advent  of  the  fourth  Industrial  Revolution,  on  the  back  of  rapid  technological 

changes  taking  place  right  now,  we  need  a  complete  rethink  of  the  education 

system.    In  future  the  vast  majority  of  our  jobs  will  be  lost  to  automation.    The 

skills  and  knowledge  required  by  children  studying  in  schools  today,  will  be 

inadequate  by  the  time  they  are  looking  for  jobs.  We  need  more  emphasis  on 

sports,  drama,  music,  art,  poetry,  all  of  these  find  arts  as  well  as  liberal  arts  and 

social sciences which are completely inadequate today in all levels of education.  I 

believe, these are the subjects required for the future.  The Government is saying 

that  since  it  has  given  42  per  cent,  so, the  states  should  do  the  entire  thing.    The 

States are not in a position to bear this burden since it is not a onetime expenditure.  

It is a recurring one.  I suggest for the consideration of the hon. Minister to make 

this as 10:90 ratio between the states and the centre.  I would like to know from the 

hon. Minister as to what international exposure the Ministry is proposing to give to 

our  teachers  so  that  teachers  will  get  an  opportunity  to  understand  the 

methodologies,  techniques  and  other  things  being  implemented  elsewhere.    With 

these  observations,  I  request  the  hon.  Minister  to  look  into  the  issues  raised  and 

take  an  appropriate  action  for  holistic  development  of  children  as  propounded 

under the RTE Act. 

 

SHRI  BALKA  SUMAN:  This  Bill  has  been  brought  to  provide  an 

opportunity to the teachers to acquire essential qualification.  Convent schools and 

corporate schools have become completely fees and money oriented.  That is why I 

urge  upon  the  Central  Government  and  the  State  Governments  also  that  we  must 

focus  on  school  education,  especially,  government  school  education.    We  must 

focus on quality education.  I request the hon. HRD Minister to allocate sufficient 

budget  for  education  sector.   One  of  the greatest  policies  that the  Government  of 

Telangana has introduced is free education from KG to PG.  We have established 

more  than  525  residential  schools  in  our  State  in  the  last  three  years  and  provide 

mid-day meal in all government hostels.  Providing our children quality education 

from  the  formative  years  is  vital  in  shaping  up  their  future.    Telangana  State  is 

redesigning  the  syllabi  at  the  elementary  education  level  to  make  the  children 

ready to face any real challenges in their lives.  We need 21 Navodaya Vidyalayas 

and 21 Kendriya Vidyalayas for these 21 new districts in Telangana. 

 

