  There  are  as  many  as 

four  Bills  before  us  today.    In  fact,  this  was  an  important  game  changer 

enactment and this Bill was introduced promptly by the then UPA government.  

It is more than seven to eight years passed now.  Who is the loser in delaying it?  

It  is  the  people  of  this  country  and  we  lost  about  a  total  of  Rs.  12  lakh  crore.  

With  regard  to  these  Bills,  I  would  like  to  submit  that  preparation  for 

implementation  has  not  been  done  to  the  satisfaction  of  authorities  concerned, 

whether  of  the  States  or  the  Centre.    Besides,  small  businessmen  and  traders 

particularly must be made to understand the nuances of the new law.  There are 

ten  Working  Groups  constituted  to  look  into  specific  issues  of  sectors  like 

banking,  finance,  insurance,  telecom,  etc.    But  there  are  several  other  very 

important and crucial sectors where the groups have not been formed and I do 

not even find any Committee or Group formed to look into that problem.  There 

is  no  clarity  with  regard  to  Excise  Free  Zones  like  the  North-East  and  other 

backward  States  and  Special  Economic  Zones.    This  will  discriminate  against 

the  development  of  these  regions.    Similarly,  there  is  no  clarity  on  how  anti-

profiteering provision would be implemented.  I would like to ask that how can 

you invoke it in a market economy?  Ultimately, there are a number of people 

who can be put inside jails for no reason.  The anti-profiteering penal provision 

in this GST Bill is far too vague and draconian.  It could discourage companies 

from  making  efficient  improvements  in  supply  chains  as  they  are  required  to 

pass  on  the  entire  benefit  to  the  consumer.    A  very  important  sector  like  real 

estate that is supposed to be the area which generates a lot of black money has 

been ignored by you.  The Government had not included it.  As far as inter-State 

movement  of  goods  is  concerned,  there  is  substantial  increase  in  the 

administrative procedure and documentation.  This will increase red tapism; this 

will be a big impediment in business operations.  In addition to that, entry tax is 

not clear with respect to the merger of different taxes with  the GST.  As far as 

the tax rates are concerned.  There are too many rates.  This itself will defeat the 

objective of the GST.  Regarding the cesses, we do not know the fate of various 

cesses,  surcharges,  and  additional  excise  duty  and  we  need  a  clarification  on 

that.    There  should  have  been  some  strict  prohibition  to  ensure  that  no  cess, 

surcharge  or  additional  excise  duty  would  be  imposed  henceforward.    Again, 

taxation  of  self-supplies  proposes  all  inter-state  movement  of  goods  and 

services between two divisions of the same legal entity would be subject to tax.  

In fact, any movement of goods and services from one State to another becomes 

subject  to  tax.    The  refund  itself  is  not  automatic.    It  should  have  been 

automatic.    A  major  aspect  of  this  Bill  is  that  the  GST  Council  is  only  an 

extension  of  the  Executive.    It  is  only  a  coordinating  body.    The  Central 

legislation  will  have  no  power  to  abrogate  the  power  of  the  State.    As  per  the 

present  wording  it  appears  that  only  the  GST  Council  and  the  Central 

Government  matter  as  a  notification  can  be 

issued  merely  on 

the 

recommendation  of  the  Council  by  the  Central  Government.    This  is  a 

fundamental  contradiction  to  the  basic  legal  framework  and  legal  relationship 

between  the  Union  Executive  and  the  Union  Legislative  as  envisaged  in  the 

Indian Constitution.  Any ambiguity on this issue lead to lot of hassles for the 

tax payer.  Taxation has to be simplified.  I would like the Government to spell 

out  how  this  basic  provision  of  tax  compliance  and  tax  reporting  will  be 

simplified from the point of view of the tax payer.  I would also like to ask from 

the Government that what was the need to have a new definition of agriculture 

sector in the GST Bill?  It will bring agriculturist in the back door into the tax 

net even as most farm produce are exempted from GST.  You have made some 

calculations for compensations but that is not adequate at all.  The GST debate 

now continues on categorization of products.  Are Parachute hair oil and edible 

oil one and the same?  Maybe, a lot of corruption and harassment will get in.  If 

you  avoid  all  these  things  from  the  scrutiny  of  Parliament,  everything  can 

happen.    Has  the  Government  evaluated  the  prospect  of  IGST  leading  to 

cascading  effect  on  prices  and  its  impact  on  inflation?    Will  there  be  a  fair 

mechanism  to  ensure  that  originating  states  do  not  suffer  revenue  losses  as 

IGST  is  a  destination  based  tax  which  favours  the  net  consuming  states  only.  

The  issue  regarding  distinction  between  the  central  tax  administration  and  the 

state tax administration has to be explained.  I have already told you that there 

will be turf war.  What started out as a single tax and a single market dream for 

industry  has  now  degenerated  into  five  rates  and  a  cess on  top  with  additional 

uncertainty about tax rates.  Administration, both at the State and Centre, will be 

technological nightmare.  With regard to many appellate bodies, I would like to 

submit, a fundamental mistake has been committed and it will be struck down 

by the Judiciary.  Liability linkages provisions are extremely bad.  There is no 

provision  with  regard  to  inflation.    GSTs  have  been  withdrawn  in  many  other 

countries because of profiteering and also because of inflationary measure.  The 

intention is very  good.   But ultimately  the  Government is landing  this  country 

into an area of tax distortions and there could be anarchy and war between the 

states and the Central administration. 

 

