  This  Mental 

Health Care Bill, 2016, has made a special provision for all those people who are 

suffering with mental illness and are wandering on the streets.  This Bill makes a 

provision  that  the  police  officer,  who  is  the  in-charge  of  the  police  station,  in 

whose  area  people  are  wandering  at  a  large  scale,  can  take  them  under  his 

protection and those will be subject to examination by a medical officer.  If their 

residences  are  known,  those  people  will  be  taken  to  their  residences.    If  their 

residences  are  not  known,  those  people  will  be  taken  to  establishments  for 

homeless  persons.    I  would  like  to  know  from  the  hon.  Minister  if  he  can  throw 

some  light  on  vocational  rehabilitation  because  vocational  rehabilitation  has  not 

been  mentioned  in  the  Bill.    This  Bill  is  very  good  in  the  sense  it  has  covered 

almost  all  the  aspects  of  a  person  suffering  from  mental  illness.    Talking  about 

human  resources,  number  of  psychiatrists  in  the  country  as  of  today  is  around 

4,500.    Today,  in  our  country,  we  require  around  12,500  psychiatrists.    The 

number  of  psychiatric  nurses  today  is  0.4  nurses  per  one  lakh  which  is  around 

3,000.    The  number  that  we  require  today  is  around  56,000  para-medical 

personnel.    So,  I  urge  upon  the  Government  that  these  numbers  should  also  be 

taken  into  consideration  for  effective  implementation  of  this  Mental  Healthcare 

Bill.  Medical Council of India is the registering body for doctors.  For nurses, we 

have  Nursing  Council.    But  for  other  para-medical  staff,  there  is  no  designated 

council.  There can be legal issues coming up when the treatment is going on like 

say  the  para-medical  staff  is  not  registered  under  any  council.    So,  I  think  we 

should consider about those councils as well.  Research is the very important part 

as far as mental healthcare is concerned.  In this the consent of the patient should 

be  taken  before  doing  any  kind  of  research  on  that  person.    So,  proper  consent 

should be taken from the concerned authority, if the person is not in a position to 

give  his  own  consent.    Another  very  good  provision  in  the  Bill,  which  is  very 

much  appreciable  is  inclusion  of  AYUSH  --  Ayurveda,  Yoga  and  Naturopathy, 

Unani,  Siddha  and  Homoeopathy.    It  is  appreciable  that  the  National  Mental 

Health Policy has been announced by hon. Minister, and also keeping in mind that 

there is shortage of doctors in the country, he has provided funding for almost 15 

Centres  of  Excellence  and  35  PG  Training  Departments.    The  District  Mental 

Health Programme has also been extended to 118 Districts in the 12th Five-Year 

Plan in addition to the 123 Districts, which was initially included in the 11th Five-

Year Plan.  The funds have been almost doubled.  The hon. Minister in his speech 

mentioned  about  mentally-ill  mothers  can  keep their  children with  them.   This  is 

one of my concerns that in some cases like bipolar diseases or schizophrenia, it is 

not advisable that the child should be kept with the mother.  So, my request is that 

such cases should be referred to the Mental Health Board, which will take a call on 

whether the children should be kept with the Mentally-ill mothers or not.  Lastly, I 

would like to specially thank the hon. Minister for making a provision in the Bill 

of punishing those people who will not follow the law.    

 

DR. RATNA DE (NAG): The Bill seeks to protect, promote and improve 

the  rights  of  the  patients  in  need  of  mental  healthcare.    As  per  National  Crime 

Records  Bureau,  1,31,666  people  committed  suicide  in  India  in  2014.    People 

commit suicide due to lack of funding, lack of human resources and social stigma 

associated with mental illness.  There is a massive shortage of psychiatrists in the 

public sector.  There are some good provisions in the Bill also.  The provision of 

appointing  a  nominee  may  lead  to  damaging  the  goodwill  and  bonding  between 

the  families.    Furthermore,  a  mental  patient  can  only  be  admitted  to  a  mental 

institution after being reviewed by the Mental Health Review Commission.  This 

may  lead  to  undue  delay  in  the  treatment  and  make  the  entire  process  more 

complicated.    The  Bill  states  about  Electro-convulsive  Therapy  (ECT)  in  case  of 

mental illness of minors.  Due to serious hazards of Electro-convulsive Therapy on 

minors and its controversial practice in the treatment of mental illness in minors, a  

blanket  ban  on  ECT  for  minors  should  be  implemented  as  advised  by  the  World 

Health  Organization.    The  Bill  states  that  medical  records  can  be  accessed  by 

patients unless it results in causing serious mental harm to the patient.  There is no 

definition  of  what  would  constitute  as  serious  mental  harm,  it  is  left  to  the 

psychiatrist's decision.  The Bill must provide for stringent punishment in cases of 

falsifying the medical records.  The community-based rehabilitation establishment 

and  services  for  patients  has  not  been  defined.    We  request  the  hon.  Minister  to 

include dementia under Mental Healthcare Bill, to incorporate one Neurologist in 

the Board, and the admission and discharge of a mental patient in a mental health 

insitution  should  be  done  under  the  jurisdiction  of  a  physician.    Regular  mental 

health awareness camps should be arranged by the Government Organizations and 

Non-Government  Organizations,  and  to  review  and  assess  that  programme  by  an 

expert; and finally, assess, analyse the benefit of the programme and the response 

of the people.    

 

