  I  request 

everybody  in  this  House  that  this  is  an  issue,  which  affects  nobody.    It  is  only 

about the Sikhs voting for their Gurdwaras.  It will not affect any other community.  

It  is  for  the  Sikh  to  decide  who  should  vote  for  their  Gurdwaras  and  who should 

not.    Anybody  who  wants  to  vote,  is  most  welcome  to  follow  the  tenets  and  the 

things  laid  down  by  the  Great  Guru  Gobind  Singhji.    My  humble  appeal  to  this 

House is that please do not play politics on this.  If we have issues, we will decide 

and we have a democratically elected body which can decide that.  But let us not 

let  everybody  decide  over  here  who  is  a  Sikh  and  who  is  not.    It  was  passed 

unanimously in the Rajya Sabha, please bear with us and support it so that we can 

run our religion the way we wanted to without you interfering and telling us how to 

run it.  

 

SHRI SANTOKH SINGH  CHAUDHARY : Guru Govind Singhji formed 

the  Khalsa  Panth  in  1699.    As  per  the  2011  Census  there  were  1.75  crore  Sikhs.  

The number of voters enrolled in 2011 is only 55 lakhs.  Let us suppose there are 

50  lakh  minors.    In  this  case  the  remaining  70  lakh  persons  who  have  declared 

themselves to be Sikhs why are you denying them their right.  They worship Guru 

Granth Sahiba.  Apart from that there are those belonging to weavers community 

and  the  Ramdasiya  Community  who  are  in  lakhs.    You  are  amending  the  Bill 

introduced  in  Rajya  Sabha  retrospectively  from  2003.    Elections  to  SGPC, 

Gurdwara  Prabandh  Committee  were  held  in  2011  and  after  that  an  interim 

arrangement  is  being  followed  as  decided  by  the  Court.    When  the  matter  is 

subjudice  then  why  has this  Bill  been  introduced.   You  have  brought  the  Bill  for 

political gains so that you can maintain your hold on the Gurdwaras and continue 

to use for your political ends the donations received in the Gurudwaras.  While you 

talk of minority you want to create a sub-minority on the other.   

 

